docs/building-blocks/application-quality.md, before:

# Application Quality Deployment Guide

> OIDC Authentication is currently a requirement of this Building Block. The application will still deploy, but it will not be fully operational.

The **Application Quality** Building Block (BB) supports the evolution of scientific algorithms from research prototypes to production-grade processing workflows. It provides tooling to verify non-functional requirements—code quality, best practices, vulnerability scanning, performance testing—and to manage these checks via pipelines integrated into a typical CI/CD process.

---

## Introduction

The **Application Quality Building Block** provides tooling to encourage best practices in software development and to test (and optimize) the performance of processing workflows in a sandbox environment. It includes:

- **Development Best Practice**: Static code analysis, vulnerability scans, best practice checks for open reproducible science.
- **Application Quality Tooling**: Container-based tools that can be orchestrated in pipelines (e.g. SonarQube, Bandit, Sphinx, etc.).
- **Application Performance**: Tools supporting performance testing and optimisation of processing workflows.

---

## Architecture Overview

- **Application Quality Database**: Stores definitions of analysis tools, pipelines, and pipeline execution metadata.
- **Application Quality Web Portal**: Front-end for pipeline creation, management, and viewing results.
- **Application Quality API**: Backend service that provides data to the Web Portal and interacts with the database.
- **Application Quality Engine**: Orchestrates pipeline executions. Submits CWL documents to a CWL runner (e.g. Calrissian) for container-based tasks.
- **CWL Runner (Calrissian)**: Runs each step in containers on Kubernetes.
- **Optional**: OpenSearch & OpenSearch Dashboards to store, visualise, and analyze results.

---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying the Application Quality Building Block, ensure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)                                               |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                           |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                       |
| APISIX Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Ingress Controllers](../prerequisites/ingress/apisix.md) |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)                                   |
| Internal TLS Certificates   | ClusterIssuer for internal certificates | [Internal TLS Setup](../prerequisites/tls.md#internal-tls) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository**:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/application-quality
```

**Validate your environment**:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-application-quality.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters** include:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain (e.g. `example.org`)
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Name of your storage class (e.g. `standard`, `managed-nfs-storage-retain`)
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager issuer name (e.g. `letsencrypt-prod`)
- **`INTERNAL_CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Name of the cert-manager ClusterIssuer for internal TLS. (Default: `eoepca-ca-clusterissuer`)

**OIDC Configuration**:

> OIDC authentication is currently a requirement of this Building Block. The application will still deploy, but it will not be fully operational.

If you choose to enable OIDC authentication, you will be asked to provide.
We will configure the clients in a later step, just provide the names for now.

- **`APP_QUALITY_CLIENT_ID`**: OIDC client ID for the Application Quality Building Block. (use `application-quality`)


### 2. Apply Secrets

```
bash apply-secrets.sh
```


### 3. Deploy via Helm

> **Note**: While the Application Quality BB is not yet in the official EOEPCA Helm charts, you can install it directly from the GitHub repository.

1. **Clone the reference repository**:
    
```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/application-quality.git reference-repo \
  -b reference-deployment
```
    
2. **Install** with Helm:
    
```bash
helm dependency update reference-repo/helm

helm upgrade -i application-quality reference-repo/helm \
  --namespace application-quality \
  --create-namespace \
  --values generated-values.yaml
```

## Optional: Enable OIDC with Keycloak

If you **do not** wish to use OIDC/IAM right now, you can skip these steps and proceed directly to the [Validation](#validation) section.

If you **do** want to protect the endpoints with IAM policies (i.e. require Keycloak tokens, limit access by groups/roles, etc.) **and** you enabled `OIDC` in the configuration script then follow these steps. You will create a new client in Keycloak.

> Before starting this please ensure that you have followed our [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md) and have a Keycloak instance running.

### 2.1 Create a Keycloak Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Confidential Client?**: specify `true` to create a CONFIDENTIAL client
- **Client ID**: You should use the client ID you inputted in the configuration script (`application-quality`).
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g. Application Quality)
- **Client secret**: Enter the Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `application-quality`.
- **Additional Subdomains**: Leave blank.
- **Additional Hosts**: Leave blank.

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

---

## Validation

1. **Run the validation script** (`validation.sh`):
    
```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This checks that the required pods/services/ingress exist and that the main endpoint returns a 200 status code.

2. **Manual**:

To confirm everything is running...

```bash
kubectl get all -n application-quality
```

---

## Usage Instructions

### 1. Accessing the Web Portal

1. Ensure your ingress is configured to route `application-quality.${INGRESS_HOST}` (or whichever domain) to the Application Quality front-end.
2. Open a browser at `https://application-quality.${INGRESS_HOST}/`.
3. If OIDC is enabled, you'll see a **Login** link in the navigation bar. Unauthenticated users can only browse certain read-only features.

### 2. Authenticating via EOEPCA IAM

1. Click the **Login** link.
2. Choose your Identity Provider (local Keycloak account or GitHub, etc.).
3. Upon successful login, the top nav bar will show your username and a **Logout** link.

### 3. Defining & Executing Pipelines

A pipeline is a sequence of analysis tools (CWL definitions) that can run on your application's source code or container. Common examples include:

- **Static code analysis** (e.g. flake8, bandit, ruff, SonarQube)
- **Vulnerability scans** (e.g. Trivy, Docker image scanning)
- **Performance checks** (executing a workflow in a test environment and capturing resource usage)

**Manual Execution**:

1. **Navigate** to **Pipelines** in the side menu.
2. **Select** the pipeline you wish to run, or create a new one that references your analysis tools.
3. **Click** the (execute) icon.
4. **Enter** Git repository URL/branch.
5. Click **Execute**.

View the pipeline's progress under **Monitoring**, which shows each stage (tool) as it runs.

### 4. Inspection of Analysis Tools & Pipelines

1. **Analysis Tools** → Lists all available tools. Each tool can have a name, version, Docker container reference, etc.
2. **Pipelines** → Each pipeline references one or more tools, plus any triggers or environment variables.

### 5. Viewing Reports & Metrics

Once a pipeline finishes, you can see:

- **Reports**: Detailed findings from each tool (lint errors, vulnerabilities, performance metrics, coverage, etc.).
- **Monitoring**: The pipeline's timeline, success/failure, logs, etc.

---

## Uninstallation

To remove all Application Quality components:

```bash
helm uninstall application-quality -n application-quality
kubectl delete namespace application-quality
```

```bash
kubectl delete pvc --all -n application-quality
```

---

## Further Reading

- [Application Quality GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/application-quality)
- [Application Quality Documentation](https://eoepca.readthedocs.io/projects/application-quality/en/latest/)

Commit message:

Refactor documentation and scripts to emphasize OIDC provider requirements and improve user prompts

docs/building-blocks/application-quality.md, after:

# Application Quality Deployment Guide

> OIDC Authentication is currently a requirement of this Building Block. 

The **Application Quality** Building Block (BB) supports the evolution of scientific algorithms from research prototypes to production-grade processing workflows. It provides tooling to verify non-functional requirements—code quality, best practices, vulnerability scanning, performance testing—and to manage these checks via pipelines integrated into a typical CI/CD process.

---

## Introduction

The **Application Quality Building Block** provides tooling to encourage best practices in software development and to test (and optimize) the performance of processing workflows in a sandbox environment. It includes:

- **Development Best Practice**: Static code analysis, vulnerability scans, best practice checks for open reproducible science.
- **Application Quality Tooling**: Container-based tools that can be orchestrated in pipelines (e.g. SonarQube, Bandit, Sphinx, etc.).
- **Application Performance**: Tools supporting performance testing and optimisation of processing workflows.

---

## Architecture Overview

- **Application Quality Database**: Stores definitions of analysis tools, pipelines, and pipeline execution metadata.
- **Application Quality Web Portal**: Front-end for pipeline creation, management, and viewing results.
- **Application Quality API**: Backend service that provides data to the Web Portal and interacts with the database.
- **Application Quality Engine**: Orchestrates pipeline executions. Submits CWL documents to a CWL runner (e.g. Calrissian) for container-based tasks.
- **CWL Runner (Calrissian)**: Runs each step in containers on Kubernetes.
- **Optional**: OpenSearch & OpenSearch Dashboards to store, visualise, and analyze results.

---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying the Application Quality Building Block, ensure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)                                               |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                           |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                       |
| OIDC Provider             | An OIDC Provider must be available              | [Deployment Guide](../building-blocks/iam/main-iam.md)                                                                                          |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)                                   |
| Internal TLS Certificates   | ClusterIssuer for internal certificates | [Internal TLS Setup](../prerequisites/tls.md#internal-tls) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository**:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/application-quality
```

**Validate your environment**:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-application-quality.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters** include:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain (e.g. `example.org`)
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Name of your storage class (e.g. `standard`, `managed-nfs-storage-retain`)
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager issuer name (e.g. `letsencrypt-prod`)
- **`INTERNAL_CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Name of the cert-manager ClusterIssuer for internal TLS. (Default: `eoepca-ca-clusterissuer`)

**OIDC Configuration**:

> OIDC authentication is currently a requirement of this Building Block.

If you choose to enable OIDC authentication, you will be asked to provide.
We will configure the clients in a later step, just provide the names for now.

- **`APP_QUALITY_CLIENT_ID`**: OIDC client ID for the Application Quality Building Block. (use `application-quality`)


### 2. Apply Secrets

```
bash apply-secrets.sh
```


### 3. Deploy via Helm

> **Note**: While the Application Quality BB is not yet in the official EOEPCA Helm charts, you can install it directly from the GitHub repository.

1. **Clone the reference repository**:
    
```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/application-quality.git reference-repo \
  -b reference-deployment
```
    
2. **Install** with Helm:
    
```bash
helm dependency update reference-repo/helm

helm upgrade -i application-quality reference-repo/helm \
  --namespace application-quality \
  --create-namespace \
  --values generated-values.yaml
```


### 4 Create a Keycloak Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Confidential Client?**: specify `true` to create a CONFIDENTIAL client
- **Client ID**: You should use the client ID you inputted in the configuration script (`application-quality`).
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g. Application Quality)
- **Client secret**: Enter the Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `application-quality`.
- **Additional Subdomains**: Leave blank.
- **Additional Hosts**: Leave blank.

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

---

## Validation

1. **Run the validation script** (`validation.sh`):
    
```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This checks that the required pods/services/ingress exist and that the main endpoint returns a 200 status code.

2. **Manual**:

To confirm everything is running...

```bash
kubectl get all -n application-quality
```

---

## Usage Instructions

### 1. Accessing the Web Portal

1. Ensure your ingress is configured to route `application-quality.${INGRESS_HOST}` (or whichever domain) to the Application Quality front-end.
2. Open a browser at `https://application-quality.${INGRESS_HOST}/`.
3. If OIDC is enabled, you'll see a **Login** link in the navigation bar. Unauthenticated users can only browse certain read-only features.

### 2. Authenticating via EOEPCA IAM

1. Click the **Login** link.
2. Choose your Identity Provider (local Keycloak account or GitHub, etc.).
3. Upon successful login, the top nav bar will show your username and a **Logout** link.

### 3. Defining & Executing Pipelines

A pipeline is a sequence of analysis tools (CWL definitions) that can run on your application's source code or container. Common examples include:

- **Static code analysis** (e.g. flake8, bandit, ruff, SonarQube)
- **Vulnerability scans** (e.g. Trivy, Docker image scanning)
- **Performance checks** (executing a workflow in a test environment and capturing resource usage)

**Manual Execution**:

1. **Navigate** to **Pipelines** in the side menu.
2. **Select** the pipeline you wish to run, or create a new one that references your analysis tools.
3. **Click** the (execute) icon.
4. **Enter** Git repository URL/branch.
5. Click **Execute**.

View the pipeline's progress under **Monitoring**, which shows each stage (tool) as it runs.

### 4. Inspection of Analysis Tools & Pipelines

1. **Analysis Tools** → Lists all available tools. Each tool can have a name, version, Docker container reference, etc.
2. **Pipelines** → Each pipeline references one or more tools, plus any triggers or environment variables.

### 5. Viewing Reports & Metrics

Once a pipeline finishes, you can see:

- **Reports**: Detailed findings from each tool (lint errors, vulnerabilities, performance metrics, coverage, etc.).
- **Monitoring**: The pipeline's timeline, success/failure, logs, etc.

---

## Uninstallation

To remove all Application Quality components:

```bash
helm uninstall application-quality -n application-quality
kubectl delete namespace application-quality
```

```bash
kubectl delete pvc --all -n application-quality
```

---

## Further Reading

- [Application Quality GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/application-quality)
- [Application Quality Documentation](https://eoepca.readthedocs.io/projects/application-quality/en/latest/)
