docs/building-blocks/oapip-engine.md, before:

# Processing - OGC API Processes Engine

## Introduction

The **OGC API Processes Engine** provides an OGC API Processes execution engine through which users can deploy, manage, and execute OGC Application Packages. The OAPIP engine is provided by the [ZOO-Project](https://zoo-project.github.io/docs/intro.html#what-is-zoo-project) `zoo-project-dru` implementation - supporting OGC WPS 1.0.0/2.0.0 and OGC API Processes Parts 1 & 2.

- **Standardised Interfaces**: Implements OGC API Processes standards for interoperability.
- **Application Deployment**: Supports deployment, replacement, and undeployment of applications.
- **Execution Engine**: Executes applications using Kubernetes and Calrissian for CWL workflows.

---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying the **OGC API Processes Engine**, ensure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                            |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)                                         |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                     |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                 |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/ingress-controller.md) |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)                             |
| Stage-In S3      | Accessible                             |             [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md)                                                                                  |
| Stage-Out S3     | Accessible                             | [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md)                                                                      |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```
git clone -b 2.0-beta https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/processing/oapip
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment

### Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-oapip.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters**

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - *Example*: `example.com`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`** (if using `cert-manager`): Name of the ClusterIssuer.
    - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
    - *Example*: `standard`

**Stage-Out S3 Configuration:**

Before proceeding, ensure you have an S3-compatible object store set up. If not, refer to the [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md). These values should already be in your EOEPCA+ state file if you followed the main deployment steps.

- **`S3_ENDPOINT`**, **`S3_ACCESS_KEY`**, **`S3_SECRET_KEY`**, **`S3_REGION`**: Credentials and location details for the S3 bucket used as Stage-Out storage.

**Stage-In S3 Configuration:**

If your Stage-In storage differs from Stage-Out (e.g., data hosted externally), specify these separately:

- **`STAGEIN_S3_ENDPOINT`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_ACCESS_KEY`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_SECRET_KEY`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_REGION`**

**OIDC Configuration:**

You will be prompted to provide whether you wish to enable OIDC authentication. If you choose to enable OIDC, ensure that you follow the steps in the [OIDC Configuration](#optional-oidc-configuration) section after deployment.

For instructions on how to set up IAM, you can follow the [IAM Building Block](./iam/main-iam.md) guide.

---

### Deploy the OAPIP Engine

#### Deploy the Helm Chart

```bash
helm repo add zoo-project https://zoo-project.github.io/charts/ && \
helm repo update zoo-project && \
helm upgrade -i zoo-project-dru zoo-project/zoo-project-dru \
  --version 0.2.6 \
  --values generated-values.yaml \
  --namespace processing \
  --create-namespace
```

---

## Optional: Enable OIDC with Keycloak

If you **do not** wish to use OIDC/IAM right now, you can skip these steps and proceed directly to the [Validation](#validation) section.

If you **do** want to protect OAPIP endpoints with IAM policies (i.e. require Keycloak tokens, limit access by groups/roles, etc.), follow these steps. You will create a new client in Keycloak for the OAPIP engine and optionally define resource-protection rules (e.g. restricting who can list jobs).

> Before starting this please ensure that you have followed our [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md) and have a Keycloak instance running.

### 2.1 Create a Keycloak Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
cd /scripts/utils
bash create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com` or `auth-apx.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Client ID**: For the OAPIP engine, you should use `oapip-engine`.
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g., `OAPIP Engine Client`).
- **Client secret**: Enter the OAPIP Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `zoo` for the OAPIP engine. 

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

---

### 2.2 Define Resource Protection

By default, once the OAPIP engine is connected to Keycloak, it can accept OIDC tokens. If you want to **restrict** or **fine-tune** access to certain endpoints (like `/ogc-api/jobs/`).

#### Protect the `/ogc-api/jobs/*` Endpoint

1. **Use the `protect-resource.sh`**:
        
```bash
cd /scripts/utils
bash protect-resource.sh
```
        
When prompted:

- **Client ID**: `oapip-engine` (the client you created in the previous step)
- **Resource Type**: `urn:oapip-engine:resources:default`
- **Resource URI**: `/ogc-api/jobs/*`
- **Username**: e.g., `eoepca` (or any user you want to test with, if you don't have a user, then create one in Keycloak)

---

### 2.3 Create APISIX Route Ingress

Back in the `scripts/processing/oapip` directory, apply the APISIX route ingress:

```bash
kubectl apply -f generated-ingress.yaml
```

---


### 2.4 Confirm Protection

With the resource and permission created, attempts to access the protected endpoint (`/ogc-api/jobs/*`) without a valid token or with insufficient privileges should be denied. You can test it by:

```
bash resource-protection-validation.sh
```



For more detailed Keycloak testing (device flow, tokens, etc.), refer to [Resource Protection with Keycloak Policies](../iam/advanced-iam.md#resource-protection-with-keycloak-policies).

---

## Validation

### Automated Validation

This script performs a series of automated tests to validate the deployment.

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

### Web Endpoints

Check access to the service web endpoints:

* **ZOO-Project Swagger UI** - `https://zoo.<INGRESS_HOST>/swagger-ui/oapip/`
* **OGC API Processes Landing Page** - `https://zoo.<INGRESS_HOST>/ogc-api/processes/`


### Expected Kubernetes Resources

Ensure that all Kubernetes resources are running correctly.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n processing
```

**Expected Output:**

- All pods should be in the `Running` state.
- No pods should be in `CrashLoopBackOff` or `Error` states.

---

### Via OGC API Processes

Validate the operation of the `zoo` service via its OGC API Processes interfaces.

Depending on your validation needs we offer a sample application that can be used to exercise the deployed service...

* `convert` - a very simple 'hello world' application that is quick to run, with low resource requirements, that can be used as a smoke test to validate the deployment


#### Authenticate

Please refer to the [IAM User Authentication](../iam/client-management#obtaining-tokens-via-the-device-flow) section for details on how to authenticate as the `eoepca` user to obtain an `access_token`.

---

### Using the API

To follow the below sections easily we recommend setting the `OAPIP_HOST` and `OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER` environment variables.

Only set `OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER` if you have OIDC enabled.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
echo ${OAPIP_HOST}
export OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER="-H \"Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}\"" # Only if OIDC is enabled
```

#### List Processes

Retrieve the list of available (currently deployed) processes.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/eoepca/ogc-api/processes" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER}
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

---

#### Deploy Process

Deploy the application that meets your validation needs.

---

##### Deploy - `convert`

Deploy the `convert` app...

```bash
curl --show-error \
  -X POST "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/processes" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Accept: application/json" \
  -d @- <<EOF | jq
{
  "executionUnit": {
    "href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/2.0-beta/scripts/processing/oapip/examples/convert-url-app.cwl",
    "type": "application/cwl"
  }
}
EOF
```

Check the `convert` application is deployed...

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/eoepca/ogc-api/processes/convert-url" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER}
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

---

#### Execute Process

Initiate the execution of the deployed application.

Execute  `convert` and retrieve the `JOB ID` of the execution.

---

##### Execute - `convert`

```bash

JOB_ID=$(
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST "${OAPIP_HOST}/eoepca/ogc-api/processes/convert-url/execution" \
    ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER} \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Accept: application/json" \
    -H "Prefer: respond-async" \
    -d @- <<EOF | jq -r '.jobID'
  {
    "inputs": {
      "fn": "resize",
      "url":  "https://eoepca.org/media_portal/images/logo6_med.original.png",
      "size": "50%"
    }
  }
EOF
)
```

---

#### Check Execution Status

The `JOB ID` is used to monitor the progress of the job execution - most notably the status field that indicates whether the job is in-progress (`running`), or its completion status (`successful` / `failed`). Note that the full URL for job monitoring is also returned in the `Location` header of the http response to the execution request.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/jobs/${JOB_ID}" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

---

#### Check Execution Results

Similarly, once the job is completed successfully, then details of the results (outputs) can be retrieved.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/jobs/${JOB_ID}/results" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

The STAC files and assets comprising the results are referenced as links to object storage. Access the object storage console to inspect these outputs - see the [Object Storage description](../prerequisites/minio.md) for more details.

---

#### Undeploy Process

The deployed application can be deleted (undeployed) once it is no longer needed.

---

##### Undeploy - `convert`

```bash

curl --silent --show-error \
  -X DELETE "${OAPIP_HOST}/eoepca/ogc-api/processes/convert-url" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER}
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```


---

## Uninstallation

To remove the Processing Building Block from your cluster:

```bash
helm -n processing uninstall zoo-project-dru
```

### Additional Cleanup

- **Delete Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs):**

  ```bash
  kubectl -n processing delete pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=zoo-project-dru
  ```

---
## Further Reading

- [ZOO-Project DRU Helm Chart](https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/tree/master/docker/kubernetes/helm/zoo-project-dru)
- [EOEPCA+ Cookiecutter Template](https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca-proc-service-template)
- [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide)
- [OGC API Processes Standards](https://www.ogc.org/standards/ogcapi-processes)
- [Common Workflow Language (CWL)](https://www.commonwl.org/)
- [Calrissian Documentation](https://github.com/Duke-GCB/calrissian)

---
## Feedback

If you have any issues or suggestions, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+Deployment Guide GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).

Commit message:

Update OAPIP documentation and add utility script for OIDC token generation

docs/building-blocks/oapip-engine.md, after:

# Processing - OGC API Processes Engine

## Introduction

The **OGC API Processes Engine** provides an OGC API Processes execution engine through which users can deploy, manage, and execute OGC Application Packages. The OAPIP engine is provided by the [ZOO-Project](https://zoo-project.github.io/docs/intro.html#what-is-zoo-project) `zoo-project-dru` implementation - supporting OGC WPS 1.0.0/2.0.0 and OGC API Processes Parts 1 & 2.

- **Standardised Interfaces**: Implements OGC API Processes standards for interoperability.
- **Application Deployment**: Supports deployment, replacement, and undeployment of applications.
- **Execution Engine**: Executes applications using Kubernetes and Calrissian for CWL workflows.

---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying the **OGC API Processes Engine**, ensure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                            |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)                                         |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                     |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                 |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Installation Guide](../prerequisites/ingress-controller.md) |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)                             |
| Stage-In S3      | Accessible                             |             [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md)                                                                                  |
| Stage-Out S3     | Accessible                             | [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md)                                                                      |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```
git clone -b 2.0-beta https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/processing/oapip
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment

### Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-oapip.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters**

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - *Example*: `example.com`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`** (if using `cert-manager`): Name of the ClusterIssuer.
    - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
    - *Example*: `standard`

**Stage-Out S3 Configuration:**

Before proceeding, ensure you have an S3-compatible object store set up. If not, refer to the [MinIO Deployment Guide](../prerequisites/minio.md). These values should already be in your EOEPCA+ state file if you followed the main deployment steps.

- **`S3_ENDPOINT`**, **`S3_ACCESS_KEY`**, **`S3_SECRET_KEY`**, **`S3_REGION`**: Credentials and location details for the S3 bucket used as Stage-Out storage.

**Stage-In S3 Configuration:**

If your Stage-In storage differs from Stage-Out (e.g., data hosted externally), specify these separately:

- **`STAGEIN_S3_ENDPOINT`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_ACCESS_KEY`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_SECRET_KEY`**, **`STAGEIN_S3_REGION`**

**OIDC Configuration:**

You will be prompted to provide whether you wish to enable OIDC authentication. If you choose to enable OIDC, ensure that you follow the steps in the [OIDC Configuration](#optional-oidc-configuration) section after deployment.

For instructions on how to set up IAM, you can follow the [IAM Building Block](./iam/main-iam.md) guide.

---

### Deploy the OAPIP Engine

#### Deploy the Helm Chart

```bash
helm repo add zoo-project https://zoo-project.github.io/charts/ && \
helm repo update zoo-project && \
helm upgrade -i zoo-project-dru zoo-project/zoo-project-dru \
  --version 0.2.6 \
  --values generated-values.yaml \
  --namespace processing \
  --create-namespace
```

---

## Optional: Enable OIDC with Keycloak

If you **do not** wish to use OIDC/IAM right now, you can skip these steps and proceed directly to the [Validation](#validation) section.

If you **do** want to protect OAPIP endpoints with IAM policies (i.e. require Keycloak tokens, limit access by groups/roles, etc.), follow these steps. You will create a new client in Keycloak for the OAPIP engine and optionally define resource-protection rules (e.g. restricting who can list jobs).

> Before starting this please ensure that you have followed our [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md) and have a Keycloak instance running.

### 2.1 Create a Keycloak Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
cd /scripts/utils
bash create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com` or `auth-apx.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Client ID**: For the OAPIP engine, you should use `oapip-engine`.
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g., `OAPIP Engine Client`).
- **Client secret**: Enter the OAPIP Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `zoo` for the OAPIP engine. 

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

---

### 2.2 Define Resource Protection

By default, once the OAPIP engine is connected to Keycloak, it can accept OIDC tokens. If you want to **restrict** or **fine-tune** access to certain endpoints (like `/ogc-api/jobs/`).

#### Protect the `/ogc-api/jobs/*` Endpoint

1. **Use the `protect-resource.sh`**:
        
```bash
cd /scripts/utils
bash protect-resource.sh
```
        
When prompted:

- **Client ID**: `oapip-engine` (the client you created in the previous step)
- **Resource Type**: `urn:oapip-engine:resources:default`
- **Resource URI**: `/ogc-api/*`
- **Username**: e.g., `eoepca` (or any user you want to test with, if you don't have a user, then create one in Keycloak)

---

### 2.3 Create APISIX Route Ingress

Back in the `scripts/processing/oapip` directory, apply the APISIX route ingress:

```bash
kubectl apply -f generated-ingress.yaml
```

---


### 2.4 Confirm Protection

With the resource and permission created, attempts to access the protected endpoint (`/ogc-api/jobs/*`) without a valid token or with insufficient privileges should be denied. You can test it by:

```
bash resource-protection-validation.sh
```



For more detailed Keycloak testing (device flow, tokens, etc.), refer to [Resource Protection with Keycloak Policies](../iam/advanced-iam.md#resource-protection-with-keycloak-policies).

---

## Validation

### Automated Validation

This script performs a series of automated tests to validate the deployment.

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

### Web Endpoints

Check access to the service web endpoints:

* **ZOO-Project Swagger UI** - `https://zoo.<INGRESS_HOST>/swagger-ui/oapip/`
* **OGC API Processes Landing Page** - `https://zoo.<INGRESS_HOST>/ogc-api/processes/`


### Expected Kubernetes Resources

Ensure that all Kubernetes resources are running correctly.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n processing
```

**Expected Output:**

- All pods should be in the `Running` state.
- No pods should be in `CrashLoopBackOff` or `Error` states.

---

### Via OGC API Processes

Validate the operation of the `zoo` service via its OGC API Processes interfaces.

We offer a sample application that can be used to exercise the deployed service:

* `convert` - a very simple 'hello world' application that is quick to run, with low resource requirements, that can be used as a smoke test to validate the deployment


---

### Using the API

To follow the below sections easily we recommend setting some environment variables.


```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
echo ${OAPIP_HOST}
```

If you have OIDC enabled, run the `oapip-utils.sh` to generate a valid OIDC token that will be temporarily stored in your environment variables.

This will ask you for the username and password for the user you added to the group to generate an access token.

```bash
source oapip-utils.sh
echo ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER}
```


#### List Processes

Retrieve the list of available (currently deployed) processes.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/processes" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Accept: application/json"
```

---

#### Deploy Process

Deploy the application that meets your validation needs.

---

##### Deploy - `convert`

Deploy the `convert` app...

```bash
curl --show-error \
  -X POST "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/processes" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Accept: application/json" \
  -d @- <<EOF | jq
{
  "executionUnit": {
    "href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/2.0-beta/scripts/processing/oapip/examples/convert-url-app.cwl",
    "type": "application/cwl"
  }
}
EOF
```

Check the `convert` application is deployed...

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/processes/convert-url" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

---

#### Execute Process

Initiate the execution of the deployed application.

Execute  `convert` and retrieve the `JOB ID` of the execution.

---

##### Execute - `convert`

```bash

JOB_ID=$(
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/processes/convert-url/execution" \
    ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Accept: application/json" \
    -H "Prefer: respond-async" \
    -d @- <<EOF | jq -r '.jobID'
  {
    "inputs": {
      "fn": "resize",
      "url":  "https://eoepca.org/media_portal/images/logo6_med.original.png",
      "size": "50%"
    }
  }
EOF
)
```

---

#### Check Execution Status

The `JOB ID` is used to monitor the progress of the job execution - most notably the status field that indicates whether the job is in-progress (`running`), or its completion status (`successful` / `failed`). Note that the full URL for job monitoring is also returned in the `Location` header of the http response to the execution request.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/jobs/${JOB_ID}" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

---

#### Check Execution Results

Similarly, once the job is completed successfully, then details of the results (outputs) can be retrieved.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X GET "${OAPIP_HOST}/ogc-api/jobs/${JOB_ID}/results" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```

The STAC files and assets comprising the results are referenced as links to object storage. Access the object storage console to inspect these outputs - see the [Object Storage description](../prerequisites/minio.md) for more details.

---

#### Undeploy Process

The deployed application can be deleted (undeployed) once it is no longer needed.

---

##### Undeploy - `convert`

```bash

curl --silent --show-error \
  -X DELETE "${OAPIP_HOST}/eoepca/ogc-api/processes/convert-url" \
  ${OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER:+-H "$OAPIP_AUTH_HEADER"} \
  -H "Accept: application/json" | jq
```


---

## Uninstallation

To remove the Processing Building Block from your cluster:

```bash
helm -n processing uninstall zoo-project-dru
```

### Additional Cleanup

- **Delete Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs):**

  ```bash
  kubectl -n processing delete pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=zoo-project-dru
  ```

---
## Further Reading

- [ZOO-Project DRU Helm Chart](https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/tree/master/docker/kubernetes/helm/zoo-project-dru)
- [EOEPCA+ Cookiecutter Template](https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca-proc-service-template)
- [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide)
- [OGC API Processes Standards](https://www.ogc.org/standards/ogcapi-processes)
- [Common Workflow Language (CWL)](https://www.commonwl.org/)
- [Calrissian Documentation](https://github.com/Duke-GCB/calrissian)

---
## Feedback

If you have any issues or suggestions, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+Deployment Guide GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).
