docs/building-blocks/openeo-engine.md, before:

# Processing - OpenEO Engine Deployment Guide (Early Access)

OpenEO develops an API that allows users to connect to Earth observation cloud back-ends in a simple and unified way. The project maintains the API and process specifications, and an open-source ecosystem with clients and server implementations.

> **Note:** You must have a valid OIDC Provider to submit jobs to the OpenEO Engine. If you do not have one, refer to the [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md) to set up an OIDC Provider.


---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying, ensure your environment meets the following requirements:

|Component|Requirement|Documentation Link|
|---|---|---|
|Kubernetes|Cluster (tested on v1.28)|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)|
|Helm|Version 3.5 or newer|[Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)|
|kubectl|Configured for cluster access|[Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)|
|Ingress|Properly installed|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/ingress-controller.md)|
|Cert Manager|Properly installed|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)|
|OIDC Provider|Required to submit jobs|[Installation Guide](./iam/main-iam.md)|


**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/processing/openeo
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-openeo.sh
```

During this process, you will be prompted for:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts (e.g., `example.com`).
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Kubernetes storage class for persistent volumes.
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager Cluster Issuer for TLS certificates.


### 2. Deploying openEO Geotrellis

openEO Geotrellis provides the API that connects users to EO cloud back-ends. It leverages Apache Spark and requires both the Spark Operator and ZooKeeper to function.

#### Step 1: Install Spark Operator

Deploy the Kubeflow Spark Operator to manage Spark jobs within your Kubernetes cluster:

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-sparkoperator spark-operator \
    --repo https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts \
    --version 2.0.2 \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values sparkoperator/generated-values.yaml
```

Refer to the [values.yaml](https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/blob/master/charts/spark-operator-chart/values.yaml) for additional configuration options.

#### Step 2: Install ZooKeeper

Deploy Apache ZooKeeper, which is required for internal coordination:

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-zookeeper \
    https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts/zookeeper-11.1.6.tgz \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values zookeeper/generated-values.yaml
```

For full configuration details, see the [values.yaml](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/bitnami/zookeeper/values.yaml).

#### Step 3: Deploy openEO Geotrellis Using Helm

Provides an API that simplifies connecting to EO cloud back-ends, running on Apache Spark in a Kubernetes environment.

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-openeo sparkapplication \
    --repo https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts \
    --version 0.16.3 \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values openeo-geotrellis/generated-values.yaml
```

Deploy ingress

```
kubectl apply -f openeo-geotrellis/generated-ingress.yaml
```

#### Step 4: Create a Keycloak Client

The openEO API provides an endpoint for service discovery, which allows openEO clients to integrate with each openEO instance. This includes auth discovery that provides details of supported identity providers. For OIDC identity providers details of an OIDC client is provided through this discovery interface. This is assumed to be a public OIDC client for use with OIDC PKCE flows (Authorization/Device Code). This allows the openEO client to dynamically integrate with the authentication approach offered by the openEO instance - with the need to register their own OIDC client.

Thus, we configure in our openEO deployment integration with an `EOEPCA` identity provider.<br>
Ref. helm values...

```python
oidc_providers = [
  OidcProvider(
    id="eoepca",
    title="EOEPCA",
    issuer="${OIDC_ISSUER_URL}",
    scopes=["openid", "profile", "email"],
    default_clients=[
      {
        "id": "${OPENEO_CLIENT_ID}",
        "grant_types": [
          "authorization_code+pkce",
          "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code+pkce",
          "refresh_token",
        ],
        "redirect_urls": ["https://openeo.$INGRESS_HOST","https://editor.openeo.org"],
      }
    ],
  ),
  #...
]
```

To support this configuration, we need to create the `openeo-public` client in Keycloak, using the `create-client.sh` script.<br>
This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.
- **Confidential Client?**: specify `false` to create a PUBLIC client
- **Client ID**: Use `openeo-public` or what you named the client in the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g., "OpenEO Public Client").
- **Subdomain**: Use `openeo`.
- **Additional Subdomains**: Leave blank.
- **Additional Hosts**: Add `editor.openeo.org` to allow integration with the openEO Web Editor

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client. 

Look through the JSON and make a note of the **`secret`** value. This is the **Client Secret** and you will need this to obtain an access token. You can always retrieve this value from the Keycloak UI later if needed.

---

## Validation

After deploying the OpenEO Engine components, perform the following checks to verify that the system is working as expected.

### 1. Automated Validation (Optional)

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This script verifies that:

- All required pods in the `openeo-geotrellis` (and optionally `openeofed`) namespace are running.
- Ingress endpoints return an HTTP 200 status code.
- Key API endpoints provide well-formed JSON responses.



### 2. Manual Validation

To easily run these commands, we recommend first setting `${INGRESS_HOST}` in your environment.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
```

Use the following commands to interact directly with the APIs:

#### Check API Metadata

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/ | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON object containing `api_version`, `backend_version`, `endpoints`, etc.

#### List Collections

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/collections | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON array listing available collections, such as the sample collection `TestCollection-LonLat16x16`.

#### List Processes

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/processes | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON object with an array of processes. Use your terminal’s scroll or `jq` to inspect the output.

---

### 3. Usage - openEO Web Editor

The deployment can be tested using the openEO Web Editor as a client.

```bash
xdg-open https://editor.openeo.org/
```

**Connect to server**

* Enter the `URL` of the server - `open.${INGRESS_HOST}` - e.g. `open.myplatform.mydomain`
* Select `Connect`

**Login to service**

* Select `EOEPCA`
* Select `Log in with EOEPCA`<br>
  This should redirect to authenticate via the IAM BB Keycloak instance
* Authenticate as a user - such as `eoepcauser`

**openEO Web Editor**

Successful login should redirect to the `Welcome` page of the openEO Web Editor.

The web editor can be used to explore the capabilities of the openEO instance.

For example, use the `Wizard` to download some data from the default collection.

---

### 4. Usage - openEO API calls

Before running any jobs, you must obtain an access token from your OIDC Provider. Use the following command to get an access token if you followed our [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md).

#### Get an Accces Token

This assumes use of the previously created `KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER` (default `eoepcauser`).<br>
If needed, run the `create-user.sh` script to create a test user - `bash ../../utils/create-user.sh`.

Request the access token.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
ACCESS_TOKEN=$(
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=${OPENEO_CLIENT_ID}" \
    -d "client_secret=${OPENEO_CLIENT_SECRET}" \
    -d "scope=openid profile email" \
    "https://${KEYCLOAK_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token" |
    jq -r '.access_token'
)
echo "Access token: ${ACCESS_TOKEN}"

AUTH_TOKEN="oidc/eoepca/${ACCESS_TOKEN}"
```

If the Access Token is empty, please make sure that the Keycloak client and user are correctly set up.

We need to format the token as `oidc/eoepca/${ACCESS_TOKEN}` to comply with the `oidc_providers` variable seen in the Helm values.


#### Submit a Job Using the "sum" Process

Submit a job that adds 5 and 6.5 by sending a process graph to the `/jobs` endpoint:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/result" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${AUTH_TOKEN}" \
  -d '{
        "process": {
          "process_graph": {
            "sum": {
              "process_id": "sum",
              "arguments": {
                "data": [5,6.5]
              },
              "result": true
            }
          }
        }
      }'
```


**Expected output:**  
A simple numeric result:

```json
11.5
```

This confirms that the "sum" process is operational and returning the correct computed sum.

#### Experiment with Other Processes

To see more available processes you can run, navigate to

```url
https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/processes
```

You should see a JSON object with an array of processes. Each with example usage and descriptions. Follow the same process as above to submit a job using any of these processes.

Your Access Token will eventually expire. If you receive a 401 error, you will need to obtain a new token by running the `Get an Access Token` section again.

---

## Further Reading & Official Docs

- [openEO Documentation](https://open-eo.github.io/openeo-api/)
- [openEO Geotrellis GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Open-EO/openeo-geotrellis-kubernetes)

Commit message:

Add notebook validation to openeo doc

docs/building-blocks/openeo-engine.md, after:

# Processing - OpenEO Engine Deployment Guide (Early Access)

OpenEO develops an API that allows users to connect to Earth observation cloud back-ends in a simple and unified way. The project maintains the API and process specifications, and an open-source ecosystem with clients and server implementations.

> **Note:** You must have a valid OIDC Provider to submit jobs to the OpenEO Engine. If you do not have one, refer to the [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md) to set up an OIDC Provider.


---

## Prerequisites

Before deploying, ensure your environment meets the following requirements:

|Component|Requirement|Documentation Link|
|---|---|---|
|Kubernetes|Cluster (tested on v1.28)|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)|
|Helm|Version 3.5 or newer|[Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)|
|kubectl|Configured for cluster access|[Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)|
|Ingress|Properly installed|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/ingress-controller.md)|
|Cert Manager|Properly installed|[Installation Guide](../prerequisites/tls.md)|
|OIDC Provider|Required to submit jobs|[Installation Guide](./iam/main-iam.md)|


**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/processing/openeo
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Run the Configuration Script

```bash
bash configure-openeo.sh
```

During this process, you will be prompted for:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts (e.g., `example.com`).
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Kubernetes storage class for persistent volumes.
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager Cluster Issuer for TLS certificates.


### 2. Deploying openEO Geotrellis

openEO Geotrellis provides the API that connects users to EO cloud back-ends. It leverages Apache Spark and requires both the Spark Operator and ZooKeeper to function.

#### Step 1: Install Spark Operator

Deploy the Kubeflow Spark Operator to manage Spark jobs within your Kubernetes cluster:

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-sparkoperator spark-operator \
    --repo https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts \
    --version 2.0.2 \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values sparkoperator/generated-values.yaml
```

Refer to the [values.yaml](https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/blob/master/charts/spark-operator-chart/values.yaml) for additional configuration options.

#### Step 2: Install ZooKeeper

Deploy Apache ZooKeeper, which is required for internal coordination:

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-zookeeper \
    https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts/zookeeper-11.1.6.tgz \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values zookeeper/generated-values.yaml
```

For full configuration details, see the [values.yaml](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/bitnami/zookeeper/values.yaml).

#### Step 3: Deploy openEO Geotrellis Using Helm

Provides an API that simplifies connecting to EO cloud back-ends, running on Apache Spark in a Kubernetes environment.

```bash
helm upgrade -i openeo-geotrellis-openeo sparkapplication \
    --repo https://artifactory.vgt.vito.be/artifactory/helm-charts \
    --version 0.16.3 \
    --namespace openeo-geotrellis \
    --create-namespace \
    --values openeo-geotrellis/generated-values.yaml
```

Deploy ingress

```
kubectl apply -f openeo-geotrellis/generated-ingress.yaml
```

#### Step 4: Create a Keycloak Client

The openEO API provides an endpoint for service discovery, which allows openEO clients to integrate with each openEO instance. This includes auth discovery that provides details of supported identity providers. For OIDC identity providers details of an OIDC client is provided through this discovery interface. This is assumed to be a public OIDC client for use with OIDC PKCE flows (Authorization/Device Code). This allows the openEO client to dynamically integrate with the authentication approach offered by the openEO instance - with the need to register their own OIDC client.

Thus, we configure in our openEO deployment integration with an `EOEPCA` identity provider.<br>
Ref. helm values...

```python
oidc_providers = [
  OidcProvider(
    id="eoepca",
    title="EOEPCA",
    issuer="${OIDC_ISSUER_URL}",
    scopes=["openid", "profile", "email"],
    default_clients=[
      {
        "id": "${OPENEO_CLIENT_ID}",
        "grant_types": [
          "authorization_code+pkce",
          "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code+pkce",
          "refresh_token",
        ],
        "redirect_urls": ["https://openeo.$INGRESS_HOST","https://editor.openeo.org"],
      }
    ],
  ),
  #...
]
```

To support this configuration, we need to create the `openeo-public` client in Keycloak, using the `create-client.sh` script.<br>
This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user (these are also in `~/.eoepca/state` if you have them set).
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.example.com`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.
- **Confidential Client?**: specify `false` to create a PUBLIC client
- **Client ID**: Use `openeo-public` or what you named the client in the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text (e.g., "OpenEO Public Client").
- **Subdomain**: Use `openeo`.
- **Additional Subdomains**: Leave blank.
- **Additional Hosts**: Add `editor.openeo.org` to allow integration with the openEO Web Editor

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client. 

Look through the JSON and make a note of the **`secret`** value. This is the **Client Secret** and you will need this to obtain an access token. You can always retrieve this value from the Keycloak UI later if needed.

---

## Validation

After deploying the OpenEO Engine components, perform the following checks to verify that the system is working as expected.

### 1. Automated Validation

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This script verifies that:

- All required pods in the `openeo-geotrellis` (and optionally `openeofed`) namespace are running.
- Ingress endpoints return an HTTP 200 status code.
- Key API endpoints provide well-formed JSON responses.

### 2. Jupyter Notebook

Launch the notebook server:

> Note that this assumes `docker` and `docker-compose` are available.

```bash
../../../notebooks/run.sh
```

Open the openeo notebook:

```bash
xdg-open http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab/tree/openeo.ipynb
```

Clear the cell outputs and then execute the notebook - which should complete with similar outputs to the reference notebook.

> Once complete, the notebook server can be quit with Ctrl-C in the terminal.

### 3. Manual Validation

To easily run these commands, we recommend first setting `${INGRESS_HOST}` in your environment.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
```

Use the following commands to interact directly with the APIs:

#### Check API Metadata

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/ | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON object containing `api_version`, `backend_version`, `endpoints`, etc.

#### List Collections

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/collections | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON array listing available collections, such as the sample collection `TestCollection-LonLat16x16`.

#### List Processes

```bash
curl -L https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/processes | jq .
```

_Expected output:_ A JSON object with an array of processes. Use your terminal’s scroll or `jq` to inspect the output.

---

### 4. Usage - openEO Web Editor

The deployment can be tested using the openEO Web Editor as a client.

```bash
xdg-open https://editor.openeo.org/
```

**Connect to server**

* Enter the `URL` of the server - `open.${INGRESS_HOST}` - e.g. `open.myplatform.mydomain`
* Select `Connect`

**Login to service**

* Select `EOEPCA`
* Select `Log in with EOEPCA`<br>
  This should redirect to authenticate via the IAM BB Keycloak instance
* Authenticate as a user - such as `eoepcauser`

**openEO Web Editor**

Successful login should redirect to the `Welcome` page of the openEO Web Editor.

The web editor can be used to explore the capabilities of the openEO instance.

For example, use the `Wizard` to download some data from the default collection.

---

### 5. Usage - openEO API calls

Before running any jobs, you must obtain an access token from your OIDC Provider. Use the following command to get an access token if you followed our [IAM Deployment Guide](./iam/main-iam.md).

#### Get an Accces Token

This assumes use of the previously created `KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER` (default `eoepcauser`).<br>
If needed, run the `create-user.sh` script to create a test user - `bash ../../utils/create-user.sh`.

Request the access token.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
ACCESS_TOKEN=$(
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=${OPENEO_CLIENT_ID}" \
    -d "client_secret=${OPENEO_CLIENT_SECRET}" \
    -d "scope=openid profile email" \
    "https://${KEYCLOAK_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token" |
    jq -r '.access_token'
)
echo "Access token: ${ACCESS_TOKEN}"

AUTH_TOKEN="oidc/eoepca/${ACCESS_TOKEN}"
```

If the Access Token is empty, please make sure that the Keycloak client and user are correctly set up.

We need to format the token as `oidc/eoepca/${ACCESS_TOKEN}` to comply with the `oidc_providers` variable seen in the Helm values.


#### Submit a Job Using the "sum" Process

Submit a job that adds 5 and 6.5 by sending a process graph to the `/jobs` endpoint:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/result" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${AUTH_TOKEN}" \
  -d '{
        "process": {
          "process_graph": {
            "sum": {
              "process_id": "sum",
              "arguments": {
                "data": [5,6.5]
              },
              "result": true
            }
          }
        }
      }'
```


**Expected output:**  
A simple numeric result:

```json
11.5
```

This confirms that the "sum" process is operational and returning the correct computed sum.

#### Experiment with Other Processes

To see more available processes you can run, navigate to

```url
https://openeo.${INGRESS_HOST}/openeo/1.2/processes
```

You should see a JSON object with an array of processes. Each with example usage and descriptions. Follow the same process as above to submit a job using any of these processes.

Your Access Token will eventually expire. If you receive a 401 error, you will need to obtain a new token by running the `Get an Access Token` section again.

---

## Further Reading & Official Docs

- [openEO Documentation](https://open-eo.github.io/openeo-api/)
- [openEO Geotrellis GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Open-EO/openeo-geotrellis-kubernetes)
