docs/prerequisites/container-registry.md, before:

# EOEPCA+ Container Registry Deployment Guide

The Container Registry stores and distributes container images for application development and deployment.

***
## Introduction

The Container Registry is a key part of the EOEPCA+ ecosystem. It stores and distributes container images for application development and deployment. We use Harbor, an open-source container registry, to efficiently manage images for applications on the platform, including those from the Application Hub or running within the Processing building block.

Key features of Harbor include:

- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Control access to images based on user roles.
- **Vulnerability Scanning**: Detect vulnerabilities in images.
- **Image Signing**: Verify the authenticity of images.
- **Audit Logs**: Track operations for compliance.
- **Replication**: Sync images across multiple Harbor instances.

***
## Architecture Overview

Harbor is made up of several components:

- **Core Services**: Manage images and users.
- **Registry**: Stores images and handles pull/push operations.
- **Database**: Stores metadata for projects, users, and roles.
- **Job Service**: Manages tasks like replication and garbage collection.
- **Trivy**: Scans images for vulnerabilities.

Optional components (can be disabled if not needed):

- **Notary**: Provides image signing and verification.
- **ChartMuseum**: Hosts Helm charts.

***
## Prerequisites

Before deploying the Container Registry, make sure you have:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                            |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Deployment Guide](kubernetes.md)                                         |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                     |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                 |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Documentation](ingress-controller.md) |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](tls.md)                             |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone -b 2.0-beta https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/container-registry
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

***
## Deployment

Deploying Harbor involves configuring the Helm chart with appropriate values and installing it into your Kubernetes cluster.

1. **Run the Configuration Script**:

    Run the configuration script:

    ```
    bash configure-container-registry.sh
    ```

    The script will prompt you for configuration values and generate a `generated-values.yaml` file for the Helm deployment:

      - **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
        - *Example*: `example.com`
      - **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager Cluster Issuer for TLS certificates.
        - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
      - **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
        - *Example*: `standard`

    Additionally, the following keys are generated by the script and should be securely stored:
	 
      - **Harbor Admin Password**: The administrative password for the Container Registry.

2. **Deploy Container Registry**

    ```bash
    helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io
    helm repo update harbor
    helm upgrade -i harbor harbor/harbor \
      --version 1.7.3 \
      --values generated-values.yaml \
      --namespace harbor \
      --create-namespace
    ```

4. **Log In**

    Navigate to `https://harbor.your-domain` in your browser.

    - **Username**: `admin`
    - **Password**: The password that was generated during configuration<br>
      _Check the `~/.eoepca/state` file_

***
### Enabling Optional Components

- **Trivy (Vulnerability Scanning)**:

    ```
    trivy:
      enabled: true
    ```

- **ChartMuseum (Helm Chart Repository)**:

    ```
    chartmuseum:
      enabled: true
    ```

- **Notary (Image Signing)**:

    ```
    notary:
      enabled: true
    ```

***
## Validation

**Automated Validation:**

```bash
bash validation.sh
```


**Manual Validation:**

1. **Check Kubernetes Resources:**

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -l app=harbor --all-namespaces
    ```

2. **Access Container Registry Dashboard:**

```
https://harbor.<your-domain>
```

 3. **Log In:**

    - **Username**: `admin`
    - **Password**: The password you set during configuration.

 4. **Test Harbor:**

    - Create a project.
    - Push and pull images.
    - Optionally, test vulnerability scanning if Trivy is enabled.

---
## Operation

**Configure Docker Client:**

To interact with Harbor using Docker commands, you need to configure your Docker client to trust the Harbor registry.

1. **Login to Harbor**:

    ```
    docker login harbor.<your-domain>
    ```

   Enter the admin username and password when prompted.

2. **Push an Image**:

    Tag an image and push it to Harbor.

    ```
    docker pull alpine:latest
    docker tag alpine:latest harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    docker push harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    ```

3. **Pull an Image**:

    ```
    docker pull harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    ```

    **Note**: If you're using self-signed certificates or an untrusted CA, you may need to configure Docker to trust the registry's certificate.

**Configure Kubernetes to Pull Images from Harbor:**

1. **Create an image pull secret**:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret docker-registry harbor-registry \
      --docker-server=harbor.<your-domain> \
      --docker-username=admin \
      --docker-password=<your-harbor-admin-password> \
      --docker-email=<your-email> \
      -n <your-namespace>
    ```

2. **Reference the Secret in your Deployment**:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: my-app
          image: harbor.<your-domain>/my-project/my-app:latest
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: harbor-registry
    ```

***
## Uninstallation

To uninstall Harbor and clean up associated resources:

`helm -n harbor uninstall harbor`

***
## Further Reading

 - [Harbor Official Website](https://goharbor.io/)
 - [Harbor Documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/)
 - [Harbor Helm Chart Repository](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm)
 - [Harbor Helm Chart Values](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm/blob/main/values.yaml)

***
## Feedback

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvement, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).

Commit message:

Reference scripted deployment for minio and harbor

docs/prerequisites/container-registry.md, after:

# EOEPCA+ Container Registry Deployment Guide

The Container Registry stores and distributes container images for application development and deployment.

***
## Introduction

The Container Registry is a key part of the EOEPCA+ ecosystem. It stores and distributes container images for application development and deployment. We use Harbor, an open-source container registry, to efficiently manage images for applications on the platform, including those from the Application Hub or running within the Processing building block.

Key features of Harbor include:

- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Control access to images based on user roles.
- **Vulnerability Scanning**: Detect vulnerabilities in images.
- **Image Signing**: Verify the authenticity of images.
- **Audit Logs**: Track operations for compliance.
- **Replication**: Sync images across multiple Harbor instances.

### Scripted Deployment

The Harbor deployment in this guide follows the same [Scripted Deployment Approach](../building-blocks/overview.md#scripted-deployment-approach), as for the EOEPCA building blocks.

***
## Architecture Overview

Harbor is made up of several components:

- **Core Services**: Manage images and users.
- **Registry**: Stores images and handles pull/push operations.
- **Database**: Stores metadata for projects, users, and roles.
- **Job Service**: Manages tasks like replication and garbage collection.
- **Trivy**: Scans images for vulnerabilities.

Optional components (can be disabled if not needed):

- **Notary**: Provides image signing and verification.
- **ChartMuseum**: Hosts Helm charts.

***
## Prerequisites

Before deploying the Container Registry, make sure you have:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                                            |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Deployment Guide](kubernetes.md)                                         |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)                                     |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)                                 |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Documentation](ingress-controller.md) |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](tls.md)                             |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone -b 2.0-beta https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/container-registry
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

***
## Deployment

Deploying Harbor involves configuring the Helm chart with appropriate values and installing it into your Kubernetes cluster.

1. **Run the Configuration Script**:

    Run the configuration script:

    ```
    bash configure-container-registry.sh
    ```

    The script will prompt you for configuration values and generate a `generated-values.yaml` file for the Helm deployment:

      - **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
        - *Example*: `example.com`
      - **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Cert-manager Cluster Issuer for TLS certificates.
        - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
      - **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
        - *Example*: `standard`

    Additionally, the following keys are generated by the script and should be securely stored:
	 
      - **Harbor Admin Password**: The administrative password for the Container Registry.

2. **Deploy Container Registry**

    ```bash
    helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io
    helm repo update harbor
    helm upgrade -i harbor harbor/harbor \
      --version 1.7.3 \
      --values generated-values.yaml \
      --namespace harbor \
      --create-namespace
    ```

4. **Log In**

    Navigate to `https://harbor.your-domain` in your browser.

    - **Username**: `admin`
    - **Password**: The password that was generated during configuration<br>
      _Check the `~/.eoepca/state` file_

***
### Enabling Optional Components

- **Trivy (Vulnerability Scanning)**:

    ```
    trivy:
      enabled: true
    ```

- **ChartMuseum (Helm Chart Repository)**:

    ```
    chartmuseum:
      enabled: true
    ```

- **Notary (Image Signing)**:

    ```
    notary:
      enabled: true
    ```

***
## Validation

**Automated Validation:**

```bash
bash validation.sh
```


**Manual Validation:**

1. **Check Kubernetes Resources:**

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -l app=harbor --all-namespaces
    ```

2. **Access Container Registry Dashboard:**

```
https://harbor.<your-domain>
```

 3. **Log In:**

    - **Username**: `admin`
    - **Password**: The password you set during configuration.

 4. **Test Harbor:**

    - Create a project.
    - Push and pull images.
    - Optionally, test vulnerability scanning if Trivy is enabled.

---
## Operation

**Configure Docker Client:**

To interact with Harbor using Docker commands, you need to configure your Docker client to trust the Harbor registry.

1. **Login to Harbor**:

    ```
    docker login harbor.<your-domain>
    ```

   Enter the admin username and password when prompted.

2. **Push an Image**:

    Tag an image and push it to Harbor.

    ```
    docker pull alpine:latest
    docker tag alpine:latest harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    docker push harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    ```

3. **Pull an Image**:

    ```
    docker pull harbor.<your-domain>/library/alpine:latest
    ```

    **Note**: If you're using self-signed certificates or an untrusted CA, you may need to configure Docker to trust the registry's certificate.

**Configure Kubernetes to Pull Images from Harbor:**

1. **Create an image pull secret**:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret docker-registry harbor-registry \
      --docker-server=harbor.<your-domain> \
      --docker-username=admin \
      --docker-password=<your-harbor-admin-password> \
      --docker-email=<your-email> \
      -n <your-namespace>
    ```

2. **Reference the Secret in your Deployment**:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: my-app
          image: harbor.<your-domain>/my-project/my-app:latest
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: harbor-registry
    ```

***
## Uninstallation

To uninstall Harbor and clean up associated resources:

`helm -n harbor uninstall harbor`

***
## Further Reading

 - [Harbor Official Website](https://goharbor.io/)
 - [Harbor Documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/)
 - [Harbor Helm Chart Repository](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm)
 - [Harbor Helm Chart Values](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm/blob/main/values.yaml)

***
## Feedback

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvement, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).
