docs/prerequisites/minio.md, before:

# EOEPCA+ MinIO Deployment Guide

MinIO is a high-performance object storage system that's compatible with the Amazon S3 API. In the EOEPCA+ ecosystem, MinIO can serve as the object storage backend for various services, including user workspaces, MLOps and other data storage needs. This does not preclude the possibility to configure an alternative S3-compatible object storage solution instead of MinIO.

---

## Introduction

MinIO provides a scalable and high-performance object storage solution that's compatible with AWS S3 APIs. It's used within the EOEPCA+ platform to store and manage data securely.

### Scripted Deployment

The Minio deployment in this guide follows the same [Scripted Deployment Approach](../building-blocks/overview.md#scripted-deployment-approach), as for the EOEPCA building blocks.

---
## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](kubernetes.md)             |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)         |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)     |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Ingress Controller Setup Guide](../prerequisites/ingress/overview.md)     |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](tls.md) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/minio
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---
## Deployment Steps

### 1. Configure MinIO

Run the configuration script:

```bash
bash configure-minio.sh
```

**During the script execution, you will be prompted for:**

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - *Example*: `example.com`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`** (if using `cert-manager`): Name of the ClusterIssuer.
    - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
    - *Example*: `standard`

### 2. Deploy MinIO

Install MinIO using Helm:

```bash
helm repo add minio https://charts.min.io/
helm repo update minio
helm upgrade -i minio minio/minio \
  --version 5.4.0 \
  --values generated-values.yaml \
  --namespace minio \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply additional ingress configuration:

```bash
kubectl -n minio apply -f ingress-plugin-config.yaml
```

### 3. Create Access Keys

Access the MinIO Console to create access keys:

1. Navigate to `https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/access-keys/new-account`<br>
   ```bash
   source ~/.eoepca/state
   xdg-open https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/access-keys/new-account
   ```
2. Log in using the **MinIO User** (`user`) and **MinIO Password** generated during the configuration step - see file `~/.eoepca/state`.
3. Under `Access Keys` select to `Create access key +`
4. Note down or download the **Access Key** and **Secret Key**.
5. Click `Create`.

Run the following script to save these keys to your EOEPCA+ state file:

```bash
bash ./apply-secrets.sh
```

> By saving these keys to the *EOEPCA+ state file*, the credentials will be automatically set during the deployment of S3-integrated Building Blocks.

---


## Validation

**Automated Validation:**

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This script performs several checks to validate your MinIO deployment:

**Pod and Service Checks**: Verifies that all MinIO pods are running and services are available.

**Endpoint Checks**: Confirms that the MinIO endpoints are accessible and return the expected HTTP status codes.

**Functionality Tests**:
  - Creates a test bucket.
  - Uploads a test file to the bucket.
  - Deletes the test file.
  - Deletes the test bucket.

> **Note**: The script uses `s3cmd` to interact with MinIO. Ensure that `s3cmd` is installed and configured on your machine. Please refer to the [`s3cmd` Installation Guide](https://s3tools.org/s3cmd).

---

**Manual Validation:**

1. **Check Kubernetes Resources:**

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -n minio
    ```

2. **Access Dashboard:**

    ```
    https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}
    ```

3. **Log In**:

    Use the credentials generated during the configuration step:

    - **Username**: `user`
    - **Password**: *(the password generated by the script)*

4. **Verify Buckets**:

    You should see the following buckets:

    - cache-bucket
    - cluster-storage
    - eoepca
    - gitlab-backup-storage
    - gitlab-lfs-storage
    - gitlab-tmp-storage
    - mlopbb-mlflow-sharinghub
    - mlopbb-sharinghub
    - openeo-geotrellis-data
   
5. **Create a Test Bucket**:

    Use the dashboard to create a new bucket and upload a test file.

---

## ReadWriteMany Storage using JuiceFS

> This is optional. It is presented here in case you are in need of a `ReadWriteMany` storage solution, and want to explore the possibility to provide this through object storage.

As described in the [Storage](./storage.md#quick-start-multi-node-with-juicefs) section, JuiceFS offers a `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) storage solution backed by Object Storage.

The steps in this section illustrate the approach to create the storage class `eoepca-rw-many` that can be used by BBs requiring ReadWriteMany persistence.

> The JuiceFS approach is designed to exploit the prevailing object storage solution that is provided by your cloud of choice. Hence, while it is possible to use MinIO as the object storage backend, this is not really the intended use case.
> 
> Nevertheless, MinIO provides a convenient way to demonstrate the principles of JuiceFS in a self-contained manner. The approach shown here can be adapted to the object storage of your cloud provider.

### Deploy the JuiceFS CSI Driver

Ref. [JuiceFS CSI Driver Documentation](https://juicefs.com/docs/csi/introduction/)

```bash
helm upgrade -i juicefs-csi-driver juicefs-csi-driver \
  --repo https://juicedata.github.io/charts/ \
  --namespace juicefs \
  --create-namespace
```

### Deploy a Metadata Engine

We will create a StorageClass that uses the JuiceFS CSI Driver to dynamically provision PersistentVolumes. But first we need a metadata engine accessible from all cluster nodes. There are many options, but for simplicity we will use Redis.

> Redis is an in-memory key-value database with excellent performance but relatively weak reliability. For production there are better alternative to Redis - such as TiKV, PostgreSQL - which should be used in preference to Redis, and aligned with your performance and reliability requirements.

```bash
helm install redis redis \
  --repo https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami \
  --set architecture=standalone \
  --set auth.enabled=false \
  --namespace juicefs \
  --create-namespace
```

### Create the StorageClass

Now we can create a StorageClass that uses the JuiceFS CSI Driver (provisioner), referencing the Redis metadata engine and an S3-compatible Object Storage solution.

> The below configuration uses the bucket `cluster-storage` in the MinIO instance. It is assumed that this bucket already exists - as will be the case if MinIO was deployed as per this guide.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  namespace: juicefs
type: Opaque
stringData:
  name: eoepca-rw-many                                     # The JuiceFS file system name
  access-key: ${S3_ACCESS_KEY}                             # Object storage credentials
  secret-key: ${S3_SECRET_KEY}                             # Object storage credentials
  metaurl: redis://redis-master.juicefs.svc.cluster.local  # Connection URL for metadata engine.
  storage: s3                                              # Object storage type, such as s3, gs, oss.
  bucket: ${S3_ENDPOINT}/cluster-storage                       # Bucket URL of object storage.
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: eoepca-rw-many
reclaimPolicy: Delete  # Specify "Retain" if you want to retain the data after PVC deletion
provisioner: csi.juicefs.com
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: juicefs
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: juicefs
EOF
```

### Test the StorageClass

We can test the StorageClass and associated provisioner by creating a PersistentVolumeClaim that uses it.

```bash
cat <<'EOF' | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: juicefs-test-pvc
  namespace: default
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteMany
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi
  storageClassName: eoepca-rw-many
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: juicefs-test-app
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - args:
    - -c
    - while true; do echo $(date -u) >> /data/out.txt; sleep 5; done
    command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: busybox
    name: app
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /data
      name: juicefs-test-pv
  volumes:
  - name: juicefs-test-pv
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: juicefs-test-pvc
EOF
```

Check the request PVC is `Bound` by the `eoepca-rw-many` StorageClass:

```bash
kubectl get pvc juicefs-test-pvc
```

You can inspect the object storage bucket to see the data chunks being written to the JuiceFS `eoepca-rw-many` volume by the test pod.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
xdg-open "https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/browser/cluster-storage/"
```

Run another pod to read the data being written by the test pod:

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: juicefs-tail
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - name: tailer
    image: busybox
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "tail -f /data/out.txt"]
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /data
      name: juicefs-test-pv
  volumes:
  - name: juicefs-test-pv
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: juicefs-test-pvc
  restartPolicy: Never
EOF

kubectl wait --for=condition=Ready pod/juicefs-tail --timeout=60s
kubectl logs -f juicefs-tail
```

> Use Ctrl-C to exit the log stream.

Remove the test resources when done:

```bash
kubectl delete pod juicefs-tail
kubectl delete pod juicefs-test-app
kubectl delete pvc juicefs-test-pvc
```

### JuiceFS Summary

We have created a _StorageClass_ that uses the `cluster-storage` bucket in the MinIO instance to create a _file-system_ inside this bucket under the path `eoepca-rw-many/`. This file-system is then used to back `ReadWriteMany` PersistentVolumes that are dynamically provisioned by the JuiceFS CSI Driver.

---

## Uninstallation

Remove MinIO and associated resources:

```bash
helm -n minio uninstall minio
kubectl delete ns/minio
```

---
## Further Reading

- [MinIO Documentation](https://docs.min.io/)
- [MinIO Complete Helm Values](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/helm/minio/values.yaml)

---
## Feedback

If you have any issues or suggestions, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).

Commit message:

[processing] align with Dev Cluster (aug22 branch) (#151) (#130)
* [processing] align with Dev Cluster (aug22 branch) (#151)

* [juicefs] prefer per-node mount-pod for dev setups

docs/prerequisites/minio.md, after:

# EOEPCA+ MinIO Deployment Guide

MinIO is a high-performance object storage system that's compatible with the Amazon S3 API. In the EOEPCA+ ecosystem, MinIO can serve as the object storage backend for various services, including user workspaces, MLOps and other data storage needs. This does not preclude the possibility to configure an alternative S3-compatible object storage solution instead of MinIO.

---

## Introduction

MinIO provides a scalable and high-performance object storage solution that's compatible with AWS S3 APIs. It's used within the EOEPCA+ platform to store and manage data securely.

### Scripted Deployment

The Minio deployment in this guide follows the same [Scripted Deployment Approach](../building-blocks/overview.md#scripted-deployment-approach), as for the EOEPCA building blocks.

---
## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

| Component        | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes       | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](kubernetes.md)             |
| Helm             | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)         |
| kubectl          | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)     |
| Ingress          | Properly installed                     | [Ingress Controller Setup Guide](../prerequisites/ingress/overview.md)     |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](tls.md) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/minio
```

**Validate your environment:**

Run the validation script to ensure all prerequisites are met:

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

---
## Deployment Steps

### 1. Configure MinIO

Run the configuration script:

```bash
bash configure-minio.sh
```

**During the script execution, you will be prompted for:**

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - *Example*: `example.com`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`** (if using `cert-manager`): Name of the ClusterIssuer.
    - *Example*: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Storage class for persistent volumes.
    - *Example*: `standard`

### 2. Deploy MinIO

Install MinIO using Helm:

```bash
helm repo add minio https://charts.min.io/
helm repo update minio
helm upgrade -i minio minio/minio \
  --version 5.4.0 \
  --values generated-values.yaml \
  --namespace minio \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply additional ingress configuration:

```bash
kubectl -n minio apply -f ingress-plugin-config.yaml
```

### 3. Create Access Keys

Access the MinIO Console to create access keys:

1. Navigate to `https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/access-keys/new-account`<br>
   ```bash
   source ~/.eoepca/state
   xdg-open https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/access-keys/new-account
   ```
2. Log in using the **MinIO User** (`user`) and **MinIO Password** generated during the configuration step - see file `~/.eoepca/state`.
3. Under `Access Keys` select to `Create access key +`
4. Note down or download the **Access Key** and **Secret Key**.
5. Click `Create`.

Run the following script to save these keys to your EOEPCA+ state file:

```bash
bash ./apply-secrets.sh
```

> By saving these keys to the *EOEPCA+ state file*, the credentials will be automatically set during the deployment of S3-integrated Building Blocks.

---


## Validation

**Automated Validation:**

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

This script performs several checks to validate your MinIO deployment:

**Pod and Service Checks**: Verifies that all MinIO pods are running and services are available.

**Endpoint Checks**: Confirms that the MinIO endpoints are accessible and return the expected HTTP status codes.

**Functionality Tests**:
  - Creates a test bucket.
  - Uploads a test file to the bucket.
  - Deletes the test file.
  - Deletes the test bucket.

> **Note**: The script uses `s3cmd` to interact with MinIO. Ensure that `s3cmd` is installed and configured on your machine. Please refer to the [`s3cmd` Installation Guide](https://s3tools.org/s3cmd).

---

**Manual Validation:**

1. **Check Kubernetes Resources:**

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -n minio
    ```

2. **Access Dashboard:**

    ```
    https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}
    ```

3. **Log In**:

    Use the credentials generated during the configuration step:

    - **Username**: `user`
    - **Password**: *(the password generated by the script)*

4. **Verify Buckets**:

    You should see the following buckets:

    - cache-bucket
    - cluster-storage
    - eoepca
    - gitlab-backup-storage
    - gitlab-lfs-storage
    - gitlab-tmp-storage
    - mlopbb-mlflow-sharinghub
    - mlopbb-sharinghub
    - openeo-geotrellis-data
   
5. **Create a Test Bucket**:

    Use the dashboard to create a new bucket and upload a test file.

---

## ReadWriteMany Storage using JuiceFS

> This is optional. It is presented here in case you are in need of a `ReadWriteMany` storage solution, and want to explore the possibility to provide this through object storage.

As described in the [Storage](./storage.md#quick-start-multi-node-with-juicefs) section, JuiceFS offers a `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) storage solution backed by Object Storage.

The steps in this section illustrate the approach to create the storage class `eoepca-rw-many` that can be used by BBs requiring ReadWriteMany persistence.

> The JuiceFS approach is designed to exploit the prevailing object storage solution that is provided by your cloud of choice. Hence, while it is possible to use MinIO as the object storage backend, this is not really the intended use case.
> 
> Nevertheless, MinIO provides a convenient way to demonstrate the principles of JuiceFS in a self-contained manner. The approach shown here can be adapted to the object storage of your cloud provider.

### Deploy the JuiceFS CSI Driver

Ref. [JuiceFS CSI Driver Documentation](https://juicefs.com/docs/csi/introduction/)

```bash
helm upgrade -i juicefs-csi-driver juicefs-csi-driver \
  --repo https://juicedata.github.io/charts/ \
  --namespace juicefs \
  --create-namespace
```

### Deploy a Metadata Engine

We will create a StorageClass that uses the JuiceFS CSI Driver to dynamically provision PersistentVolumes. But first we need a metadata engine accessible from all cluster nodes. There are many options, but for simplicity we will use Redis.

> Redis is an in-memory key-value database with excellent performance but relatively weak reliability. For production there are better alternative to Redis - such as TiKV, PostgreSQL - which should be used in preference to Redis, and aligned with your performance and reliability requirements.

```bash
helm install redis redis \
  --repo https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami \
  --set architecture=standalone \
  --set auth.enabled=false \
  --namespace juicefs \
  --create-namespace
```

### Create the StorageClass

Now we can create a StorageClass that uses the JuiceFS CSI Driver (provisioner), referencing the Redis metadata engine and an S3-compatible Object Storage solution.

> The below configuration uses the bucket `cluster-storage` in the MinIO instance. It is assumed that this bucket already exists - as will be the case if MinIO was deployed as per this guide.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  namespace: juicefs
type: Opaque
stringData:
  name: eoepca-rw-many                                     # The JuiceFS file system name
  access-key: ${S3_ACCESS_KEY}                             # Object storage credentials
  secret-key: ${S3_SECRET_KEY}                             # Object storage credentials
  metaurl: redis://redis-master.juicefs.svc.cluster.local  # Connection URL for metadata engine.
  storage: s3                                              # Object storage type, such as s3, gs, oss.
  bucket: ${S3_ENDPOINT}/cluster-storage                       # Bucket URL of object storage.
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: eoepca-rw-many
reclaimPolicy: Delete  # Specify "Retain" if you want to retain the data after PVC deletion
provisioner: csi.juicefs.com
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: juicefs
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: sc-eoepca-rw-many
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: juicefs
  # Use of Mount Pod?
  # For production then "true" for proper isolation.
  # For debug/dev then "false" for shared mount pod per node
  #   - better if the cluster stop/restarts, e.g. when using k3d
  mountPodOnly: "false"  # Convenient for a debug cluster
EOF
```

### Test the StorageClass

We can test the StorageClass and associated provisioner by creating a PersistentVolumeClaim that uses it.

```bash
cat <<'EOF' | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: juicefs-test-pvc
  namespace: default
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteMany
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi
  storageClassName: eoepca-rw-many
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: juicefs-test-app
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - args:
    - -c
    - while true; do echo $(date -u) >> /data/out.txt; sleep 5; done
    command:
    - /bin/sh
    image: busybox
    name: app
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /data
      name: juicefs-test-pv
  volumes:
  - name: juicefs-test-pv
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: juicefs-test-pvc
EOF
```

Check the request PVC is `Bound` by the `eoepca-rw-many` StorageClass:

```bash
kubectl get pvc juicefs-test-pvc
```

You can inspect the object storage bucket to see the data chunks being written to the JuiceFS `eoepca-rw-many` volume by the test pod.

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
xdg-open "https://console-minio.${INGRESS_HOST}/browser/cluster-storage/"
```

Run another pod to read the data being written by the test pod:

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: juicefs-tail
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - name: tailer
    image: busybox
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "tail -f /data/out.txt"]
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /data
      name: juicefs-test-pv
  volumes:
  - name: juicefs-test-pv
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: juicefs-test-pvc
  restartPolicy: Never
EOF

kubectl wait --for=condition=Ready pod/juicefs-tail --timeout=60s
kubectl logs -f juicefs-tail
```

> Use Ctrl-C to exit the log stream.

Remove the test resources when done:

```bash
kubectl delete pod juicefs-tail
kubectl delete pod juicefs-test-app
kubectl delete pvc juicefs-test-pvc
```

### JuiceFS Summary

We have created a _StorageClass_ that uses the `cluster-storage` bucket in the MinIO instance to create a _file-system_ inside this bucket under the path `eoepca-rw-many/`. This file-system is then used to back `ReadWriteMany` PersistentVolumes that are dynamically provisioned by the JuiceFS CSI Driver.

---

## Uninstallation

Remove MinIO and associated resources:

```bash
helm -n minio uninstall minio
kubectl delete ns/minio
```

---
## Further Reading

- [MinIO Documentation](https://docs.min.io/)
- [MinIO Complete Helm Values](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/helm/minio/values.yaml)

---
## Feedback

If you have any issues or suggestions, please open an issue on the [EOEPCA+ Deployment Guide Repository](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/issues).
