docs/quickstart/processing-deployment.md, before:

# Processing Deployment

## Overview

A deployment wrapper script has been prepared for a 'processing' deployment - that is focused on the ADES and the deployment/execution of processing jobs.

The script [`deploy/processing/processing`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/processing/processing) achieves this by appropriate [configuration of the environment variables](scripted-deployment.md#environment-variables), before launching the [eoepca.sh deployment script](scripted-deployment.md#command-line-arguments). The deployment configuration is captured in the file [`deploy/processing/processing-options`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/processing/processing-options).

The processing deployment applies the following configuration:

* Assumes a private deployment - i.e. no external-facing IP/ingress, and hence no TLS<br>
  _To configure an external-facing deployment with TLS protection, then see section [Public Deployment](scripted-deployment.md#public-deployment)_
* No TLS for service ingress endpoints
* Services deployed:
    * ADES for processing
    * Minio for S3 object storage
* ADES stage-out to Minio
* Open ingress are enabled for unauthenticated access to ADES service
* Other eoepca services not deployed

## Initiate Deployment

Deployment is initiated by invoking the script...

```
./deploy/processing/processing
```

The ADES service is accessed at the endpoint `zoo-open.<domain>` - e.g. `zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io`.

## Example Requests

Some sample requests have been prepared in the subdirectory [`deploy/samples/requests/processing`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/tree/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing) - for example...

* [`convert`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/convert-url.http)<br>
  _Provides a 'hello world' processing example that can be used simply to check that the processing capability has been well deployed_
* [`snuggs`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/snuggs.http)<br>
  _Provides a packaged EO exploitation algorithm that perform 'real' work and, as such, is more resource demanding (10GB RAM, 3 CPU) - and so may not be suitable for execution within a local minikube deployment (depending on resource allocations)_

These sample `http` files have been prepared with sample requests for **_OGC API Processes_** operations:

* List Processes
* Deploy Process
* Get Process Details
* Execute Process
* Get Job Status
* Get Job Results

!!! note
    * The first requests in the file provide optional calls to obtain a user ID token (`openidConfiguration` / `authenticate`).<br>
      _These are to be used in the case that protected (not 'open') endpoints are deployed._
    * The file describes the HTTP requests for the ADES OGC API Processes endpoint, and is designed for use with the Visual Studio Code (vscode) extension [REST Client](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=humao.rest-client).<br>
      _Install in vscode with `ext install humao.rest-client`._
    * The variables `@hostname` and `@domain` can be configured at the top of the file.
  
### Alternative `curl` Commands

Alternatively the following `curl` commands can be used...

??? example "List Processes"
    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

??? example "Deploy & Execute (`convert`)"

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`convert`) - By Reference (JSON)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --data '{"executionUnit": {"href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/convert/main/convert-url-app.cwl","type": "application/cwl"}}'
        ```

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`convert`) - Inline (CWL)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/cwl+yaml' \
          --data '< convert-url-app.cwl'
        ```

    ??? example "Get Process Details (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request GET \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

    ??? example "Execute Process (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url/execution \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --header 'prefer: respond-async' \
          --data '{"inputs": {"fn":  "resize","url": "https://eoepca.org/media_portal/images/logo6_med.original.png", "size": "50%"},"response":"raw"}'
        ```

    ??? example "Undeploy Process (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request DELETE \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

??? example "Deploy & Execute (`snuggs`)"

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --data '{"executionUnit": {"href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/snuggs.cwl","type": "application/cwl"}}'
        ```

    ??? example "Get Process Details (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request GET \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

    ??? example "Execute Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs/execution \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --header 'prefer: respond-async' \
          --data '{"inputs": {"input_reference":  "https://earth-search.aws.element84.com/v0/collections/sentinel-s2-l2a-cogs/items/S2B_36RTT_20191205_0_L2A","s_expression": "ndvi:(/ (- B05 B03) (+ B05 B03))"},"response":"raw"}'
        ```

    ??? example "Undeploy Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request DELETE \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

??? example "Get Job Status"
    This request requires the `Location` header from the response to the execute request. This will be of the form `http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/{user}/ogc-api/jobs/{job-id}` - e.g. `http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/jobs/7b58bc38-64d4-11ed-b962-0242ac11000e`.

    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url {location-header} \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

??? example "Get Job Results"
    This request uses the same URL as `Get Job Status`, with the additional URL path `/results` - i.e. `/{user}/ogc-api/jobs/{job-id}/results` - e.g. `/eric/ogc-api/jobs/7b58bc38-64d4-11ed-b962-0242ac11000e/results`

    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url {location-header}/results \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

    The response indicates the location of the results, which should be in the `minio` object storage. See [Processing Results](#processing-results).

    The response also provides links to log files regarding each step of the Application Package workflow execution - which may be useful for debugging.

??? example "List Jobs"
    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/jobs \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

## Processing Results

The outputs are published as a static STAC catalogue to a path that includes the unique job ID.

In the default configuration, the processing results are pushed to the Minio S3 object storage. This can be checked via browser access at the endpoint `console.minio.<domain>` e.g. http://console.minio.192-168-49-2.nip.io/, or using an S3 client such as...

```bash
s3cmd -c ./deploy/cluster/s3cfg ls s3://eoepca
```

For the default credentials to connect to Minio see [Minio Object Storage Default Credentials](./scripted-deployment.md#minio-object-storage).

!!! note
    If the ADES deployment has been configured to stage-out to the user's Workspace, then the above `s3cmd` and credentials would have to be adjusted accordingly - for example the bucket `s3://ws-eric`.

Commit message:

Update each quickstart with links to the Post-deployment Manual Steps

docs/quickstart/processing-deployment.md, after:

# Processing Deployment

## Overview

A deployment wrapper script has been prepared for a 'processing' deployment - that is focused on the ADES and the deployment/execution of processing jobs.

The script [`deploy/processing/processing`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/processing/processing) achieves this by appropriate [configuration of the environment variables](scripted-deployment.md#environment-variables), before launching the [eoepca.sh deployment script](scripted-deployment.md#command-line-arguments). The deployment configuration is captured in the file [`deploy/processing/processing-options`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/processing/processing-options).

The processing deployment applies the following configuration:

* Assumes a private deployment - i.e. no external-facing IP/ingress, and hence no TLS<br>
  _To configure an external-facing deployment with TLS protection, then see section [Public Deployment](scripted-deployment.md#public-deployment)_
* No TLS for service ingress endpoints
* Services deployed:
    * ADES for processing
    * Minio for S3 object storage
* ADES stage-out to Minio
* Open ingress are enabled for unauthenticated access to ADES service
* Other eoepca services not deployed

## Initiate Deployment

Deployment is initiated by invoking the script...

```
./deploy/processing/processing
```

The ADES service is accessed at the endpoint `zoo-open.<domain>` - e.g. `zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io`.

## Post-deploy Manual Steps

To complete the deployment, see section [Post-deployment Manual Steps](./scripted-deployment.md#post-deployment-manual-steps) of the [Scripted Deployment](./scripted-deployment.md) page.

## Example Requests

Some sample requests have been prepared in the subdirectory [`deploy/samples/requests/processing`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/tree/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing) - for example...

* [`convert`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/convert-url.http)<br>
  _Provides a 'hello world' processing example that can be used simply to check that the processing capability has been well deployed_
* [`snuggs`](https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/blob/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/snuggs.http)<br>
  _Provides a packaged EO exploitation algorithm that perform 'real' work and, as such, is more resource demanding (10GB RAM, 3 CPU) - and so may not be suitable for execution within a local minikube deployment (depending on resource allocations)_

These sample `http` files have been prepared with sample requests for **_OGC API Processes_** operations:

* List Processes
* Deploy Process
* Get Process Details
* Execute Process
* Get Job Status
* Get Job Results

!!! note
    * The first requests in the file provide optional calls to obtain a user ID token (`openidConfiguration` / `authenticate`).<br>
      _These are to be used in the case that protected (not 'open') endpoints are deployed._
    * The file describes the HTTP requests for the ADES OGC API Processes endpoint, and is designed for use with the Visual Studio Code (vscode) extension [REST Client](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=humao.rest-client).<br>
      _Install in vscode with `ext install humao.rest-client`._
    * The variables `@hostname` and `@domain` can be configured at the top of the file.
  
### Alternative `curl` Commands

Alternatively the following `curl` commands can be used...

??? example "List Processes"
    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

??? example "Deploy & Execute (`convert`)"

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`convert`) - By Reference (JSON)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --data '{"executionUnit": {"href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/convert/main/convert-url-app.cwl","type": "application/cwl"}}'
        ```

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`convert`) - Inline (CWL)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/cwl+yaml' \
          --data '< convert-url-app.cwl'
        ```

    ??? example "Get Process Details (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request GET \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

    ??? example "Execute Process (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url/execution \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --header 'prefer: respond-async' \
          --data '{"inputs": {"fn":  "resize","url": "https://eoepca.org/media_portal/images/logo6_med.original.png", "size": "50%"},"response":"raw"}'
        ```

    ??? example "Undeploy Process (`convert`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request DELETE \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/convert-url \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

??? example "Deploy & Execute (`snuggs`)"

    ??? example "Deploy Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --data '{"executionUnit": {"href": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide/eoepca-v1.3/deploy/samples/requests/processing/snuggs.cwl","type": "application/cwl"}}'
        ```

    ??? example "Get Process Details (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k \
          --request GET \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

    ??? example "Execute Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request POST \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs/execution \
          --header 'accept: application/json' \
          --header 'content-type: application/json' \
          --header 'prefer: respond-async' \
          --data '{"inputs": {"input_reference":  "https://earth-search.aws.element84.com/v0/collections/sentinel-s2-l2a-cogs/items/S2B_36RTT_20191205_0_L2A","s_expression": "ndvi:(/ (- B05 B03) (+ B05 B03))"},"response":"raw"}'
        ```

    ??? example "Undeploy Process (`snuggs`)"
        ```bash
        curl -k -v \
          --request DELETE \
          --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/processes/snuggs \
          --header 'accept: application/json'
        ```

??? example "Get Job Status"
    This request requires the `Location` header from the response to the execute request. This will be of the form `http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/{user}/ogc-api/jobs/{job-id}` - e.g. `http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/jobs/7b58bc38-64d4-11ed-b962-0242ac11000e`.

    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url {location-header} \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

??? example "Get Job Results"
    This request uses the same URL as `Get Job Status`, with the additional URL path `/results` - i.e. `/{user}/ogc-api/jobs/{job-id}/results` - e.g. `/eric/ogc-api/jobs/7b58bc38-64d4-11ed-b962-0242ac11000e/results`

    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url {location-header}/results \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

    The response indicates the location of the results, which should be in the `minio` object storage. See [Processing Results](#processing-results).

    The response also provides links to log files regarding each step of the Application Package workflow execution - which may be useful for debugging.

??? example "List Jobs"
    ```bash
    curl -k \
      --request GET \
      --url http://zoo-open.192-168-49-2.nip.io/eric/ogc-api/jobs \
      --header 'accept: application/json'
    ```

## Processing Results

The outputs are published as a static STAC catalogue to a path that includes the unique job ID.

In the default configuration, the processing results are pushed to the Minio S3 object storage. This can be checked via browser access at the endpoint `console.minio.<domain>` e.g. http://console.minio.192-168-49-2.nip.io/, or using an S3 client such as...

```bash
s3cmd -c ./deploy/cluster/s3cfg ls s3://eoepca
```

For the default credentials to connect to Minio see [Minio Object Storage Default Credentials](./scripted-deployment.md#minio-object-storage).

!!! note
    If the ADES deployment has been configured to stage-out to the user's Workspace, then the above `s3cmd` and credentials would have to be adjusted accordingly - for example the bucket `s3://ws-eric`.
