docs/building-blocks/iam/main-iam.md, before:

# Identity and Access Management (IAM) Deployment Guide

The EOEPCA Identity and Access Management (IAM) Building Block provides secure authentication and authorisation for all platform services. It enables you to manage users, roles, policies, and integrate with external identity providers.

**Key Features:**

- Central user management via Keycloak
- Fine-grained policy decisions using OPA & OPAL
- Integration with external IdPs (e.g., GitHub)
- Enforcement of policies at the APISIX ingress layer

---

## Prerequisites

| Component          | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes         | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)             |
| Helm               | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)         |
| kubectl            | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)     |
| Ingress Controller   | Properly installed                     | [Installation Guide](../../prerequisites/ingress/overview.md)  |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../../prerequisites/tls.md) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/iam
```

**Check Prerequisites:**

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

If any checks fail, address them before proceeding.

---

## Overview of Deployment Steps

1. **Configure the IAM Environment**: Provide ingress host, storage classes, etc.
2. **Deploy Keycloak**: Set up the central identity provider.
3. **Create the `eoepca` Realm and Basic Users**: Keep `master` for admin tasks only.
4. **(Optional) Integrate External IdPs**: Add GitHub or other providers.
5. **Deploy OPA & OPAL**: For advanced policy decisions.
6. **Set up Policies & Permissions**: Restrict access to services as needed.
7. **Test & Validate**: Confirm that IAM is working as intended.

For production, use proper TLS, stable storage, and consider external identity providers. For development, simpler self-signed certs and test credentials may suffice.

---

## Step-by-Step Deployment

### 1. Configure the IAM Deployment

```bash
bash configure-iam.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters**

During the script execution, you will be prompted to provide:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - _Example_: `example.com`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Kubernetes storage class for persistent volumes.
    - _Example_: `standard`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Issuer for TLS certificates
    - _Example_: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`

The script will also generate secure passwords for:

- **`KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD`**: Password for the Keycloak admin account.
- **`KEYCLOAK_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`**: Password for the Keycloak PostgreSQL database.
- **`OPA_CLIENT_SECRET`**: Secret for the `opa` (Open Policy Agent) client in Keycloak

These credentials will be stored in a state file at `~/.eoepca/state`.

### 2. Apply Secrets

```bash
bash apply-secrets.sh
```

This creates Kubernetes secrets from the credentials generated earlier.

### 3. Deploy Keycloak

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update bitnami
helm upgrade -i keycloak bitnami/keycloak \
  --values keycloak/generated-values.yaml \
  --version 21.4.4 \
  --namespace iam \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply Keycloak ingress:

```bash
kubectl -n iam apply -f keycloak/generated-ingress.yaml
```

**Custom Keycloak Image**

If you have a custom Keycloak image that includes the Keycloak-OPA adapter plugin, you can specify it in the `keycloak/values-template.yaml` file by uncommenting and modifying the `image` section:

```yaml
image:
  registry: your.registry
  repository: eoepca/keycloak-with-opa-plugin
  tag: your-tag
  pullPolicy: Always
```

Replace `your.registry`, `eoepca/keycloak-with-opa-plugin`, and `your-tag` with your registry, repository, and tag.

### 4. Create the `eoepca` Realm and a Test User

Instead of using `master`, create a dedicated `eoepca` realm - using the Keycloak REST API.<br>
For convenience we also create an `eoepcauser` (test) user to support usage examples in this guide where a user must be assumed.

**Create the `eoepca` realm...**

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state

# Get access token for Keycloak admin user
ACCESS_TOKEN=$( \
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
    "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token" | jq -r '.access_token' \
)

# Create the `eoepca` realm
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- \
  "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/admin/realms" <<EOF
{
  "realm": "eoepca",
  "enabled": true
}
EOF
```

**Create the `eoepcauser` user in the `eoepca` realm...**<br>
_Set the user/password according to your needs_

```bash
bash ../utils/create-user.sh
```


### 5. (Optional) Integrate External Identity Providers

If you wish to add GitHub or another IdP, see [Advanced Configuration](advanced-iam.md#integrating-github-as-an-external-identity-provider) for detailed instructions and examples.

### 6. Create the `opa` Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user<br>_See `~/.eoepca/state`_
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.${INGRESS_HOST}`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Confidential Client?**: specify `true` to create a CONFIDENTIAL client
- **Client ID**: For OPA, you should use `opa`.
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text<br>_e.g. name=`OPA Client` and description=`Open Policy Agent`_
- **Client secret**: Enter the OPA Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `opa` for Open Policy Agent. 
- **Additional Hosts**: Leave blank.

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

### 7. Deploy OPA & OPAL

```bash
helm repo add opal https://permitio.github.io/opal-helm-chart
helm repo update opal
helm upgrade -i opa opal/opal \
  --values opa/generated-values.yaml \
  --version 0.0.28 \
  --namespace iam \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply OPA ingress:

```bash
kubectl -n iam apply -f opa/generated-ingress.yaml
```

### 8. Testing & Validation

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

Check all pods:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n iam
```

Ensure all components (Keycloak, OPA, etc.) are running and accessible.

---

## Further Configuration & Usage

For detailed steps on:

- Creating and managing Keycloak clients
- Integrating external IdPs
- Applying advanced resource protection (groups, roles, OPA policies)
- Using the device flow to obtain tokens in a script or notebook

Refer to the [Client Administration](client-management.md) and [Advanced Configuration](advanced-iam.md).


After deployment, the IAM exposes several endpoints for authentication, authorization, and administration. Replace `${INGRESS_HOST}` with your actual ingress host domain in the URLs below.

### Keycloak

**Keycloak Home Page:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/`

**OpenID Connect Discovery Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/.well-known/openid-configuration`

**OAuth 2.0 Authorization Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/auth`

**OAuth 2.0 Token Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token`

**Administration Console:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/admin/`

**Accessing the Administration Console:**

1. **Retrieve Admin Credentials**
    
    The admin credentials are stored in the state file. Retrieve them using:
    
    ```bash
    source ~/.eoepca/state
    echo "Username: $KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER"
    echo "Password: $KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD"
    ```
    
2. **Login to the Console**
    
    Navigate to the Administration Console URL and log in with the retrieved credentials.
    

### Open Policy Agent (OPA)

**OPA Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://opa.${INGRESS_HOST}/`

You can test policy evaluations by sending requests to OPA's REST API. For example:

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
# Authenticate as test user `eoepcauser`
ACCESS_TOKEN=$( \
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER=}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
    "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token" | jq -r '.access_token' \
)
# Interogate OPA using the access token for `eoepcauser`
curl -X POST "https://opa.${INGRESS_HOST}/v1/data/example/allow" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"input": {"user": "alice"}}'
```

---

### Validating Kubernetes Resources

Ensure that all Kubernetes resources are running correctly.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n iam
```

**Expected Output**:

- All pods should be in the `Running` state.
- No pods should be in `CrashLoopBackOff` or `Error` states.


---

## Cleanup

To remove IAM components:

```bash
kubectl -n iam delete -f keycloak/generated-ingress.yaml
bash delete-secrets.sh
helm -n iam uninstall keycloak

kubectl -n iam delete -f opa/generated-ingress.yaml
helm -n iam uninstall opa
```

If you created custom clients or realms, remove them using the scripts in `scripts/` or the instructions in the appendices.

---

## Further Reading

- [EOEPCA IAM Documentation](https://eoepca.readthedocs.io/projects/iam)
- [Keycloak Documentation](https://www.keycloak.org/documentation)
- [Open Policy Agent Documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/)
- [OPAL Documentation](https://github.com/permitio/opal)

Commit message:

Add test-suite execution to BB validations

docs/building-blocks/iam/main-iam.md, after:

# Identity and Access Management (IAM) Deployment Guide

The EOEPCA Identity and Access Management (IAM) Building Block provides secure authentication and authorisation for all platform services. It enables you to manage users, roles, policies, and integrate with external identity providers.

**Key Features:**

- Central user management via Keycloak
- Fine-grained policy decisions using OPA & OPAL
- Integration with external IdPs (e.g., GitHub)
- Enforcement of policies at the APISIX ingress layer

---

## Prerequisites

| Component          | Requirement                            | Documentation Link                                                |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kubernetes         | Cluster (tested on v1.28)              | [Installation Guide](../../prerequisites/kubernetes.md)             |
| Helm               | Version 3.5 or newer                   | [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)         |
| kubectl            | Configured for cluster access          | [Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)     |
| Ingress Controller   | Properly installed                     | [Installation Guide](../../prerequisites/ingress/overview.md)  |
| TLS Certificates | Managed via `cert-manager` or manually | [TLS Certificate Management Guide](../../prerequisites/tls.md) |

**Clone the Deployment Guide Repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/EOEPCA/deployment-guide
cd deployment-guide/scripts/iam
```

**Check Prerequisites:**

```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

If any checks fail, address them before proceeding.

---

## Overview of Deployment Steps

1. **Configure the IAM Environment**: Provide ingress host, storage classes, etc.
2. **Deploy Keycloak**: Set up the central identity provider.
3. **Create the `eoepca` Realm and Basic Users**: Keep `master` for admin tasks only.
4. **(Optional) Integrate External IdPs**: Add GitHub or other providers.
5. **Deploy OPA & OPAL**: For advanced policy decisions.
6. **Set up Policies & Permissions**: Restrict access to services as needed.
7. **Test & Validate**: Confirm that IAM is working as intended.

For production, use proper TLS, stable storage, and consider external identity providers. For development, simpler self-signed certs and test credentials may suffice.

---

## Step-by-Step Deployment

### 1. Configure the IAM Deployment

```bash
bash configure-iam.sh
```

**Configuration Parameters**

During the script execution, you will be prompted to provide:

- **`INGRESS_HOST`**: Base domain for ingress hosts.
    - _Example_: `example.com`
- **`STORAGE_CLASS`**: Kubernetes storage class for persistent volumes.
    - _Example_: `standard`
- **`CLUSTER_ISSUER`**: Issuer for TLS certificates
    - _Example_: `letsencrypt-http01-apisix`

The script will also generate secure passwords for:

- **`KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD`**: Password for the Keycloak admin account.
- **`KEYCLOAK_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`**: Password for the Keycloak PostgreSQL database.
- **`OPA_CLIENT_SECRET`**: Secret for the `opa` (Open Policy Agent) client in Keycloak

These credentials will be stored in a state file at `~/.eoepca/state`.

### 2. Apply Secrets

```bash
bash apply-secrets.sh
```

This creates Kubernetes secrets from the credentials generated earlier.

### 3. Deploy Keycloak

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update bitnami
helm upgrade -i keycloak bitnami/keycloak \
  --values keycloak/generated-values.yaml \
  --version 21.4.4 \
  --namespace iam \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply Keycloak ingress:

```bash
kubectl -n iam apply -f keycloak/generated-ingress.yaml
```

**Custom Keycloak Image**

If you have a custom Keycloak image that includes the Keycloak-OPA adapter plugin, you can specify it in the `keycloak/values-template.yaml` file by uncommenting and modifying the `image` section:

```yaml
image:
  registry: your.registry
  repository: eoepca/keycloak-with-opa-plugin
  tag: your-tag
  pullPolicy: Always
```

Replace `your.registry`, `eoepca/keycloak-with-opa-plugin`, and `your-tag` with your registry, repository, and tag.

### 4. Create the `eoepca` Realm and a Test User

Instead of using `master`, create a dedicated `eoepca` realm - using the Keycloak REST API.<br>
For convenience we also create an `eoepcauser` (test) user to support usage examples in this guide where a user must be assumed.

**Create the `eoepca` realm...**

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state

# Get access token for Keycloak admin user
ACCESS_TOKEN=$( \
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
    "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token" | jq -r '.access_token' \
)

# Create the `eoepca` realm
curl --silent --show-error \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- \
  "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/admin/realms" <<EOF
{
  "realm": "eoepca",
  "enabled": true
}
EOF
```

**Create the `eoepcauser` user in the `eoepca` realm...**<br>
_Set the user/password according to your needs_

```bash
bash ../utils/create-user.sh
```


### 5. (Optional) Integrate External Identity Providers

If you wish to add GitHub or another IdP, see [Advanced Configuration](advanced-iam.md#integrating-github-as-an-external-identity-provider) for detailed instructions and examples.

### 6. Create the `opa` Client

Use the `create-client.sh` script in the `/scripts/utils/` directory. This script prompts you for basic details and automatically creates a Keycloak client in your chosen realm:

```bash
bash ../utils/create-client.sh
```

When prompted:

- **Keycloak Admin Username and Password**: Enter the credentials of your Keycloak admin user<br>_See `~/.eoepca/state`_
- **Keycloak base domain**: e.g. `auth.${INGRESS_HOST}`
- **Realm**: Typically `eoepca`.

- **Confidential Client?**: specify `true` to create a CONFIDENTIAL client
- **Client ID**: For OPA, you should use `opa`.
- **Client name** and **description**: Provide any helpful text<br>_e.g. name=`OPA Client` and description=`Open Policy Agent`_
- **Client secret**: Enter the OPA Client Secret that was generated during the configuration script (check `~/.eoepca/state`).
- **Subdomain**: Use `opa` for Open Policy Agent. 
- **Additional Hosts**: Leave blank.

After it completes, you should see a JSON snippet confirming the newly created client.

### 7. Deploy OPA & OPAL

```bash
helm repo add opal https://permitio.github.io/opal-helm-chart
helm repo update opal
helm upgrade -i opa opal/opal \
  --values opa/generated-values.yaml \
  --version 0.0.28 \
  --namespace iam \
  --create-namespace
```

Apply OPA ingress:

```bash
kubectl -n iam apply -f opa/generated-ingress.yaml
```

### 8. Testing & Validation

```bash
bash validation.sh
```

Check all pods:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n iam
```

Ensure all components (Keycloak, OPA, etc.) are running and accessible.

### 9. Test Suite Execution

Run the IAM tests from the system test suite.

> We only run the smoke tests here, since the full IAM tests rely upon the (example) protection of the Processing BB (OGC API Processes engine).

```bash
../../test-suite.sh -m smoketest test/iam
```

**_The test results are summarised to the file `test-report.xml`._**

If the Processing BB (example) protection has been applied, then the full IAM test suite can be run:

```bash
../../test-suite.sh test/iam
```

---

## Further Configuration & Usage

For detailed steps on:

- Creating and managing Keycloak clients
- Integrating external IdPs
- Applying advanced resource protection (groups, roles, OPA policies)
- Using the device flow to obtain tokens in a script or notebook

Refer to the [Client Administration](client-management.md) and [Advanced Configuration](advanced-iam.md).


After deployment, the IAM exposes several endpoints for authentication, authorization, and administration. Replace `${INGRESS_HOST}` with your actual ingress host domain in the URLs below.

### Keycloak

**Keycloak Home Page:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/`

**OpenID Connect Discovery Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/.well-known/openid-configuration`

**OAuth 2.0 Authorization Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/auth`

**OAuth 2.0 Token Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token`

**Administration Console:**

- URL: `https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/admin/`

**Accessing the Administration Console:**

1. **Retrieve Admin Credentials**
    
    The admin credentials are stored in the state file. Retrieve them using:
    
    ```bash
    source ~/.eoepca/state
    echo "Username: $KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER"
    echo "Password: $KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD"
    ```
    
2. **Login to the Console**
    
    Navigate to the Administration Console URL and log in with the retrieved credentials.
    

### Open Policy Agent (OPA)

**OPA Endpoint:**

- URL: `https://opa.${INGRESS_HOST}/`

You can test policy evaluations by sending requests to OPA's REST API. For example:

```bash
source ~/.eoepca/state
# Authenticate as test user `eoepcauser`
ACCESS_TOKEN=$( \
  curl --silent --show-error \
    -X POST \
    -d "username=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_USER=}" \
    --data-urlencode "password=${KEYCLOAK_TEST_PASSWORD}" \
    -d "grant_type=password" \
    -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
    "https://auth.${INGRESS_HOST}/realms/${REALM}/protocol/openid-connect/token" | jq -r '.access_token' \
)
# Interogate OPA using the access token for `eoepcauser`
curl -X POST "https://opa.${INGRESS_HOST}/v1/data/example/allow" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"input": {"user": "alice"}}'
```

---

### Validating Kubernetes Resources

Ensure that all Kubernetes resources are running correctly.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n iam
```

**Expected Output**:

- All pods should be in the `Running` state.
- No pods should be in `CrashLoopBackOff` or `Error` states.


---

## Cleanup

To remove IAM components:

```bash
kubectl -n iam delete -f keycloak/generated-ingress.yaml
bash delete-secrets.sh
helm -n iam uninstall keycloak

kubectl -n iam delete -f opa/generated-ingress.yaml
helm -n iam uninstall opa
```

If you created custom clients or realms, remove them using the scripts in `scripts/` or the instructions in the appendices.

---

## Further Reading

- [EOEPCA IAM Documentation](https://eoepca.readthedocs.io/projects/iam)
- [Keycloak Documentation](https://www.keycloak.org/documentation)
- [Open Policy Agent Documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/)
- [OPAL Documentation](https://github.com/permitio/opal)
